---
op_id: ba31365df7b14eef9094b4a9527967ba
op_slug: anathemists
op_kind: Wiki
op_type: WikiPage
name: Anathemists
title: Anathemists
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/wiki_pages/anathemists
op_created_at: '2025-11-25T15:41:41Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-01T11:04:28Z'
op_gm_only: false
tags:
- Organisation
---

Religious zealots who believe that mortal misuse of magic angered [[The Gods | the Gods]], leading to their withdrawal and the death of magic. They hold that only by purging the unholy practice of magic from the face of [[Arcan | Arcan]] can the Gods’ light be restored.

h2. Notable Members

* [[:commander-wake | Anathemist Commander - Name Unknown]]

h2. History

* *25th of Enean, 4218 [[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]]*: A force of Anathemists ambush the [[Sindrel | Sindrel]] coach. They claim to be interested only in the gold and other valuables carried therein. Despite taking losses, they deploy a novel weapon, slaying the [[:lacerta-kirrahe | leader]] of the [[The Vermillion Company | mercenaries]] guarding the coach.

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
"Anathema" is a name for a formal curse by a pope or a council of the Church, excommunicating a person or denouncing a doctrine.

The Anathemists are an inter-faith religious order working towards the eradication of magic.

They believe that the only way to restore the grace of [[The Gods | the gods]] is to denounce the blasphemous use of magic. As such, they maintain that the existence of [[Sindrel | Sindrel]] is an affront to the gods and a barrier to their return. Sindrel, therefore, must be destroyed.

They have been cautiously probing [[Sindrel | Sindrel]]'s defences and have become openly hostile to travellers heading towards the city.

h2. Sindrel infiltration cell

Embedded spy team (see [[The Investigation | The Investigation]] GM): [[:barnabus | Barnabus]] (cell lead), [[:georges-de-selve | Georges de Selve]] and [[:jean-de-dinteville | Jean de Dinteville]] (senior lieutenants), [[:arouraios | Arouraios]] (mapper), [[:regnif-d-log | Regnif d'Log]] (patsy).

h2. Ideology



Anathemist ideology has its roots in the teachings of , which holds that the ability to perform magic was gifted to mortals by [[The Gods | the Gods]]. The Anathemist interpretation holds that the most powerful magic users turned their backs on the gods and used their power hubristically to improve their own station, ultimately coming to challenge the gods themselves. In retaliation, they believe, the Gods stripped mortals of their gift of magic, and turned their backs on the world.

h2. Encounter building

Rank-and-file **soldiers** on the [[The Mage Road | Mage Road]] and the plains before [[Sindrel | Sindrel]]; **lieutenants** lead mounted patrols. Every spell cast within sight draws *Anathema's Fury*. Sum creature XP, apply the DMG group multiplier (×2 for 3–6 enemies, ×2.5 for 7–10, etc.), then compare the total to the thresholds below.

| Level | Easy | Medium | Hard | Deadly |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| 3 | 1,400 | 2,800 | 4,200 | 7,350 |
| 4 | 1,925 | 3,850 | 5,775 | 9,800 |
| 5 | 4,375 | 8,750 | 13,125 | 19,600 |
| 6 | 5,250 | 10,500 | 15,750 | 23,100 |
| 7 | 6,125 | 12,250 | 18,375 | 27,300 |
| 8 | 7,000 | 14,000 | 21,000 | 30,800 |
| 9 | 7,700 | 15,400 | 23,100 | 33,600 |
| 10 | 8,400 | 16,800 | 25,200 | 36,400 |

*Adjusted XP thresholds for a party of seven (DMG p. 82).*

| Composition | Adjusted XP |
|---|---|
| 4 **Soldiers** | 1,600 |
| 6 **Soldiers** | 2,400 |
| 5 **Soldiers** + 1 **Lieutenant** | 2,900 |
| 6 **Soldiers** + 1 **Lieutenant** | 3,300 |
| 8 **Soldiers** + 1 **Lieutenant** | 5,125 |
| 10 **Soldiers** + 2 **Lieutenants** | 7,250 |

h3. Anathemist Soldier

Spear-and-shield infantry; enraged by visible spellcasting.

<div class="stat-block">
<p><em>Medium humanoid (any race), lawful neutral</em></p>
<p><strong>Armor Class</strong> 15 (studded leather, shield)<br>
<strong>Hit Points</strong> 27 (5d8 + 5)<br>
<strong>Speed</strong> 30 ft.<br>
<strong>Initiative</strong> +1</p>
<hr>
<table>
    <tr><th>STR</th><th>DEX</th><th>CON</th><th>INT</th><th>WIS</th><th>CHA</th></tr>
    <tr><td>14 (+2)</td><td>12 (+1)</td><td>12 (+1)</td><td>10 (+0)</td><td>13 (+1)</td><td>10 (+0)</td></tr>
</table>
<hr>
<p><strong>Skills</strong> Athletics +4, Perception +3, Religion +2<br>
<strong>Senses</strong> passive Perception 13<br>
<strong>Languages</strong> Common<br>
<strong>Challenge</strong> 1 (200 XP)<br>
<strong>Proficiency Bonus</strong> +2</p>
<hr>
<p><strong>Anathema's Fury.</strong> When a creature the soldier can see within 60 feet casts a spell, the soldier has advantage on all attack rolls against that creature until the end of the soldier's next turn.</p>
<hr>
<h4>Actions</h4>
<p><strong>Multiattack.</strong> The soldier makes two melee attacks.</p>
<p><strong>Spear.</strong> <em>Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack:</em> +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. <em>Hit:</em> 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage, or 6 (1d8 + 2) piercing damage if used with two hands to make a melee attack.</p>
</div>

h3. Anathemist Lieutenant

Patrol leader. The party captured [[:arise-to-victory-over-the-infidel-hoards | Arise To Victory Over The Infidel Hoards]] after the skirmish on the road from [[Fallowhurst | Fallowhurst]].

<div class="stat-block">
<p><em>Medium humanoid (any race), lawful neutral</em></p>
<p><strong>Armor Class</strong> 16 (breastplate, shield)<br>
<strong>Hit Points</strong> 39 (6d8 + 12)<br>
<strong>Speed</strong> 30 ft.<br>
<strong>Initiative</strong> +1</p>
<hr>
<table>
    <tr><th>STR</th><th>DEX</th><th>CON</th><th>INT</th><th>WIS</th><th>CHA</th></tr>
    <tr><td>16 (+3)</td><td>12 (+1)</td><td>14 (+2)</td><td>11 (+0)</td><td>14 (+2)</td><td>13 (+1)</td></tr>
</table>
<hr>
<p><strong>Saving Throws</strong> WIS +4, CHA +3<br>
<strong>Skills</strong> Athletics +5, Intimidation +3, Perception +4, Religion +4<br>
<strong>Senses</strong> passive Perception 14<br>
<strong>Languages</strong> Common<br>
<strong>Challenge</strong> 2 (450 XP)<br>
<strong>Proficiency Bonus</strong> +2</p>
<hr>
<p><strong>Anathema's Fury.</strong> When a creature the lieutenant can see within 60 feet casts a spell, the lieutenant has advantage on all attack rolls against that creature until the end of the lieutenant's next turn.</p>
<p><strong>Zealous Command.</strong> When the lieutenant hits a creature that has cast a spell since the start of the lieutenant's last turn, one [[Anathemists | Anathemist]] soldier within 30 feet of the lieutenant can use its reaction to move up to half its speed and make one spear attack against that creature.</p>
<hr>
<h4>Actions</h4>
<p><strong>Multiattack.</strong> The lieutenant makes two melee attacks.</p>
<p><strong>Longsword.</strong> <em>Melee Weapon Attack:</em> +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. <em>Hit:</em> 7 (1d8 + 3) slashing damage, or 8 (1d10 + 3) slashing damage if used with two hands.</p>
</div>
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
