---
op_id: a53977e64ce44d78869bea16f12b3c19
op_slug: artresh
op_kind: Wiki
op_type: WikiPage
name: Artresh
title: Artresh
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/wiki_pages/artresh
op_created_at: '2026-01-15T13:43:35Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-01T12:42:13Z'
op_gm_only: false
tags:
- location
---

Artresh is the Houdian name for the continent on which our story takes place.

[[Sindrel | Sindrel]] is located at the extreme north-east of the continent.

Until about **260 years ago** (3958 SC), the continent was split between two major powers - the [[The Magedom of Houd | The Magedom of Houd]] in the north, and [[The Thaumocracy of Tellerin | The Thaumocracy of Tellerin]] in the south. After the [[World History | Seven Day War]], the Magedom gradually split into a network of city states — including **Corvus**, on the road toward the [[Arkay Mountain Range | Arkay]] — while the Thaumocracy closed its borders and became, for all intents and purposes, terra incognita.

h2. Races of Artresh

As magic has faded across [[Arcan | Arcan]], so too have the more magically-inclined ancestries. Where once tieflings, aasimar, and fey-touched peoples were common sights, they are now all but unheard of outside [[Sindrel | Sindrel]] and a handful of dying enclaves. Mundane peoples - humans, orcs, dwarves, and halflings - dominate the continent. Long-lived elves and their half-elven descendants linger in cities and trade towns, but their numbers fall with every generation.

In a Houdian market town, a half-elf or rock gnome draws little comment; a tiefling or aasimar earns stares and the assumption they came from [[Sindrel | Sindrel]] or carry an old bloodline. Dragonborn and genasi survive as dwindling lines, not growing peoples. Stories of gith, planar visitors in mortal guise, and undead "peoples" belong to legend - not to census rolls.

The [[The Thaumocracy of Tellerin | Thaumocracy of Tellerin]] closed its borders after the [[World History | Seven Day War]]; whether more magical ancestries persisted there in isolation, the rest of [[Artresh | Artresh]] does not know.

[[Sindrel | Sindrel]] is the exception - magic still works there, and the city's mix of peoples does not match the rest of the continent. See *Races of Sindrel* on the [[Sindrel | Sindrel]] page.

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
h2. Races of Artresh — NPC generation

Continent-wide species tiers for NPC generation outside [[Sindrel | Sindrel]]. For native, visitor, and refugee profiles plus district placement in the city, see [[Sindrel | Sindrel]] (GM section).

h3. Core (common across the continent)

Everyday ancestries - what most people in the Houdian successor states, caravan towns, and farmland are. No one remarks on them.

* Human - the default majority almost everywhere.
* Half-orc and orc - common on frontiers, in mercenary companies, mining, and hard labour; hardy and not magic-dependent.
* Dwarf - widespread in mountains and cities; craft and trade survive the fade of magic better than enchantment.
* Halfling - common in agricultural regions and trade networks.
* Goblin - common in urban underclasses, service work, and marginal labour.
* Hobgoblin - established in disciplined military and mercantile company cultures.

h3. Common

Regular sights in cities and on the roads - not the default, but no one stops to stare.

* Half-elf - still seen along trade routes; *declining* as elven communities shrink and fewer children are born.
* Elf (high, wood, sea) - *fading but present*; long lifespans mean elders and enclaves linger decades after births drop. Sea elves only on coasts.
* Gnome (rock) - tinkers, clerks, and artisans; the mundane rock strain outlasts fey-touched variants.
* Goliath - mountain and highland peoples; physical, not spell-dependent.
* Kobold - mines, scrap trades, and dense cities.
* Lizardfolk - regional (marsh, river, warm south); biological, not magical.
* Tabaxi - caravan folk and port cities.
* Kenku - urban and itinerant; often tied to old Tellarin trade networks.
* Tortle - coastal and island pockets.
* Bugbear - less common but established in certain mercenary and frontier bands.

h3. Uncommon

Still a few of them around, enough for small communities, but they'll typically get furtive glances or a raised eyebrow in a Houdian market town.

* Dragonborn - old draconic lines; *no longer thriving* - survivors, not a growing people.
* Duergar and deep gnome - underdark enclaves; isolated, not continent-spanning.
* Drow - rare outside deep holdings; surface drow almost always have a story.
* Minotaur - pockets in old Tellarin labyrinth-cults and border ruins.
* Centaur - open country only; nearly gone from the north.
* Shifter - old lycanthrope bloodlines; *dying out* as the curse and its magic weaken.
* Changeling - few remaining; harder to sustain without strong magical identity.
* Yuan-ti - remnants of serpent cults; mostly southern and Tellarin fringe lore.
* Triton - small coastal minorities; elemental heritage muted.
* Genasi - *uncommon and falling*; elemental infusion does not reproduce cleanly as magic dies.

h3. Rare

Almost unheard of - will earn a full double-take in a Houdian market town and are viable as an attraction in a traveling show on the basis of their existence alone. Invariably the result of an unusual personal journey (migration from [[Sindrel | Sindrel]], old bloodline, curse, or plot).

* Tiefling - infernal heritage without active pact-magic; *nearly extinct* on Artresh.
* Aasimar - celestial blood; same trajectory - *almost gone* outside legend and old portraits.
* Fairy - feywild-linked; *practically extinct* on Arcan proper.
* Satyr - fey; essentially gone from the continent.
* Eladrin - fey elf strain; rarer than high elves; often mistaken for odd high elves.
* Firbolg - fey-giant heritage; isolated deep-wood remnants only.
* Harengon - fey-touched; essentially gone.
* Aarakocra - elemental air-touched; rare migrants or highland myths.
* Warforged - very rare relics of magical war-industry; no new construction.
* Lineages (dhampir, hexblood, reborn) - individual cases tied to curses, necromancy, or the Fade; not stable populations.

h3. Non-existent

Present only in old stories and myths, no functioning presence on [[Arcan | Arcan]]. Plot-only unless explicitly introduced.

* Githyanki and githzerai
* Monstrous or custom fiendish ancestries - individuals, not peoples.
* Planar visitors in mortal guise - demons, devils, angels.
* Undead "peoples".
* Spelljammer and off-world ancestries (autognome, giff, hadozee, plasmoid, thri-kreen).

h3. Regional notes

* *Houdian north* ([[Soulwind | Soulwind]], successor states, the road to [[Sindrel | Sindrel]]) - human, half-orc, dwarf, and halfling core; half-elf and elf in cities; tiefling, aasimar, and fairy essentially absent except Sindrel migrants.
* *[[The Thaumocracy of Tellerin | Tellerin]]* (closed borders) - more magical ancestries may have survived longer in isolation; still rarer than a century ago. Currently unknown.
* *Frontier and caravan routes* - orc, half-orc, goliath, tabaxi, and kobold over-represented relative to courtly cities.
* *[[Sindrel | Sindrel]]* - a special case since magic still works; see that page for the distributions.
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
