---
op_id: 17e89067cf1744788929bebbc0c1da15
op_slug: home-page
op_kind: Wiki
op_type: WikiPage
name: Home Page
title: Home Page
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/wiki_pages/home-page
op_created_at: '2025-11-17T15:24:03Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-01T11:04:35Z'
op_gm_only: false
tags: []
---

h2. The Age of Magic is Ending

Over the last century, the gradual decay of the supernatural has become undeniable. Mages who once reshaped reality now struggle with simple illusions; enchanted items that should last generations are exhausted after a handful of uses; even those who draw their power from [[The Gods | the gods]] have found their deities to be growing distant and uninterested.

As the old power structures crumble, new and ambitious ideologies compete for dominance. The chaos is growing, and the new shape of the world is up for grabs.

Born into this world, you have lived the majority of your lives with the knowledge that once concrete certainties are eroding around you. And you have all, for your own reasons, made the long, arduous journey to the one place on earth where wonders persist - [[Sindrel | Sindrel]], the last city of magic.

h3. The story so far

_Through Session 11 (31st Enean 4218 SC)._

Seven strangers met at [[The White Dragon Coaching Inn | the White Dragon]], bound for [[Sindrel | Sindrel]]. They survived an [[Anathemists | Anathemist]] ambush on the [[The Mage Road | Mage Road]], rode the [[:sindrel-coach | coach]] over a cliff rather than surrender, and stumbled into the drowned ruins of [[Fallowhurst | Fallowhurst]], where [[Fallowhurst College | Fallowhurst College]] tried very hard to keep them.

On the plains before the city, they faced the Anathemists again, this time a roving patrol. [[House Meness | House Meness]] soldiers arrived on scene just in time to take custody of the defeated Anathemist leftenant. The shining city took the travellers' names, fitted them with silver guest bracelets, and gave them thirty-six days to find a patron among the Great Houses, or leave. Before the ink was dry, the [[Hexine Circle | Hexine Circle]] had a better offer: root out spies who had burrowed far deeper into [[Sindrel | Sindrel]] than anyone admitted. The price of failure was exile. The price of success was a gold bracelet and a place in the world's last magical city.

Calling themselves [[The Adventurers | the Wonch]], they set about following a dozen contradictory briefs from seven jealous Houses. The trail led to [[The Wallarch District | Wallarch]], to [[The Black Cats | Black Cats]] and low dives, to the [[Osteomantic Archives | Osteomantic Archives]] and the bones beneath them. They emerged through [[House Oestra | House Oestra]]'s own vaults with more questions than answers, and the growing sense that [[Sindrel | Sindrel]]'s invulnerability may be mostly posture.

Now the nature of the threat is being revealed. Someone nearly brought down [[The Fulcrum | the Fulcrum]], not with sorcery, but with clockwork, flint, and gunpowder brewed from the city's own waste. The same hand may have drowned [[:dogara | Hydromancer D'gara]] to steal nitre, and burned sulphur under cover of [[House Beltus | House Beltus]]'s conjured "demons." The [[Hexine Circle | Hexine Circle]]'s investigators have traced the bombs to the servants' entrance to the tunnels below the tower, and a bespectacled [[:arouraios | coachman]] with an unfamiliar coat of arms who moved through the staff routes while the city was distracted by its own spectacle.

The Wonch know how many devices were found beneath [[The Fulcrum | the Fulcrum]]. They do not yet know how many more their enemy can build from what has already been stolen, nor whether the next explosion will wait for a ceremony, or simply arrive unannounced.

* [[Main Page | Wiki]]
* "Adventure Log":https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/adventure-log
* "Characters":https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters
