---
op_id: 55a496d64bfa4a7589f23affa1fd3064
op_slug: items
op_kind: Wiki
op_type: WikiPage
name: Items
title: Items
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/wiki_pages/items
op_created_at: '2026-07-01T21:22:18Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-01T21:22:34Z'
op_gm_only: false
tags: []
---

Campaign items grouped by type.

h2. Documents

* [[Private Warwick's Report | Private Warwick's Report]]

h2. Jewelry

* [[Silver Guest Bracelet | Silver Guest Bracelet]]

h2. Musical instruments

* [[Pipes of Faunal Calling | Pipes of Faunal Calling]]

h2. Other

* [[Bone Dice | Bone Dice]]
* [[Dragonborn Skull | Dragonborn Skull]]
* [[Spoon of Digging | Spoon of Digging]]
* [[The Fallowhurst Sigil | The Fallowhurst Sigil]]

h2. Shield

* [[The Unanswered Cry | The Unanswered Cry]]

h2. Vehicle

* [[Sindrel Coach | Sindrel Coach]]

h2. Weapon

* [[Anasthetic Scalpel | Anasthetic Scalpel]]
* [[Knuckledusters | Knuckledusters]]
* [[The Gentleman's Greeting | The Gentleman's Greeting]]
* [[Hesh | Hesh]]
* [[Oestra Effigy Blade | Oestra Effigy Blade]]
* [[The Gonne | The Gonne]]

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
h2. Clothing

* [[Mask of Foreknowledge | Mask of Foreknowledge]]
* [[The Shadow's Vestment | The Shadow's Vestment]]
* [[The Shaper's Hands | The Shaper's Hands]]

h2. Documents

* [[Letter from Lord Oestra to Embren Oestra | Letter from Lord Oestra to Embren Oestra]]
* [[Map of Fallowhurst College | Map of Fallowhurst College]]
* [[Notes on Triffid Research | Notes on Triffid Research]]

h2. Jewelry

* [[The Amulet of Stars | The Amulet of Stars]]
* [[The Crown of Shadows | The Crown of Shadows]]
* [[The Red Mourning | The Red Mourning]]

h2. Keys

* [[Fallowhurst College Master Key | Fallowhurst College Master Key]]
* [[Silas Oestra's Chamber Key | Silas Oestra's Chamber Key]]

h2. Shield

* [[Celæs | Celæs]]

h2. Weapon

* [[Gladius | Gladius]]
* [[Swordbreaker | Swordbreaker]]

h2. Other

* [[Peaches of Immortality | Peaches of Immortality]]
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
