---
op_id: 618b4a6b80ed422c8817e3098513251a
op_slug: pipes-of-faunal-calling
op_kind: Wiki
op_type: WikiPage
name: Pipes of Faunal Calling
title: Pipes of Faunal Calling
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/wiki_pages/pipes-of-faunal-calling
op_created_at: '2026-07-01T21:22:24Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-01T21:22:24Z'
op_gm_only: false
tags:
- item
- musical instrument
- wondrous
---

A set of pan flutes sold at a [[House Mabon | House Mabon]] journeyman fair near the [[Temple of the Dawn Father | Temple of the Dawn Father]]. They carry a minor enchantment that allows a beast who has heard their song once to hear it from any distance and instantly know the location of the player.

[[:rossin-ros-greyhirst | Ros]] purchased them on the 28th of Enean 4218 SC while [[:silrie-aegiskiir | Silrie]] prayed at the temple.[1]

**Current holder:** [[:rossin-ros-greyhirst | Rossin "Ros" Greyhirst]].

<div class="stat-block">
<h3>Pipes of Faunal Calling</h3>
<p><em>Wondrous item (pan pipes), uncommon</em></p>
<hr>
<p><strong>Rarity</strong> Uncommon<br>
<strong>Attunement</strong> Not required</p>
<hr>
<p><strong>Faunal calling.</strong> As an action, you can play a short melody on these pipes. Choose one beast that can hear you and that has heard this melody played on these pipes at least once before. That beast instantly knows your location, regardless of distance, until you finish a long rest or play a different calling melody that supersedes the first. A beast can be bound to only one calling melody at a time.</p>
</div>

<div class="op-footnotes">

fn1. [[Session 4: Sindrel! | Session 4: Sindrel!]]

</div>
