---
op_id: 64be17912893438cbf88a734a30d56bc
op_slug: project-kosmios
op_kind: Wiki
op_type: WikiPage
name: Project Kosmios
title: Project Kosmios
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/wiki_pages/project-kosmios
op_created_at: '2026-06-24T18:22:12Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-06-24T18:23:14Z'
op_gm_only: true
tags: []
---



<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
[[Kosmios | Kosmios]] is the focus of [[Sindrel | Sindrel]]'s current secret colonial project.

The modern plan is to physically move [[Sindrel | Sindrel]] into [[Kosmios | Kosmios]] in response to the looming death of magic.

[[Sindrel | Sindrel]]'s power is sustained by extractive magical colonialism in [[Kosmios | Kosmios]].

The relocation spell requires immense magic and necromantic balance.

This necromantic component is missing because of the fall of [[The Eighth House | House Samhain]].

Samhain is unaware of the modern relocation plan.

The [[Hexine Circle | Hexine Circle]] does not know the truth.

Very high clearance only: founders, House heads / extremely senior insiders as appropriate.

h2. Infrastructure

| Site | Role |
|------|------|
| **Axis Chamber** | Rift anchor beneath [[The Fulcrum | the Fulcrum]]; [[House Beltus | Beltus]] portal access only; Wellspring **cooling loop** |
| **[[Dockward | Dockward]]** | Scaled **control array** to force the aperture wide enough for city-scale transit; upgrade cycle in progress |

See [[The Octarion Circle | The Octarion Circle]] GM § Project Kosmios; [[The Fulcrum | the-fulcrum]] GM; [[Dockward | dockward]] GM.

h2. Why "Kosmios" terrifies the elite

The name ties together colonial extraction, the locked rift, and **Project Kosmios** — the founders' escape plan. Any enemy who knows it is assumed to know **where the city truly lives** (under the Fulcrum) and **what must not be broken** (Dockward array).

The captured Anathemist Lieutenant dropping the word 'Kosmios' raises the possibility that the Ditchquer Bombing was targeting the rift itself. In reality it was a target of opportunity, the anathemists didn't learn about Kosmios until afterwards.
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
