---
op_id: fab92a384bdb4e03bf8617366aa8ce71
op_slug: the-black-cats
op_kind: Wiki
op_type: WikiPage
name: The Black Cats
title: The Black Cats
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/wiki_pages/the-black-cats
op_created_at: '2026-03-10T20:49:39Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-04T12:14:32Z'
op_gm_only: false
tags:
- Organisation
---

Organised crime in [[Sindrel | Sindrel]], concentrated in [[The Wallarch District | the Wallarch district]].

[[:hielaman | Captain Hielaman]] of [[House Meness | House Meness]] treats them as the city's principal criminal syndicate and advised [[The Adventurers | the Wonch]] to lean on low-level operatives rather than assault leadership directly.[1]

h2. Known leads

* [[:emerich-surefoot | Emerich Surefoot]] - low-level enforcer.
* [[The Cutthroat's Repose | The Cutthroat's Repose]] - back room; password "Swordfish"; Emerich's superior operates from here.
* [[:chuggaz | Chugan "Chuggaz" Velm]] - [[The Fulcrum | Fulcrum]] servant; rumoured links (see [[The Investigation | The Investigation]]).

h2. Interactions with the Wonch

* Deathwalker gambled with Emerich and a few others, flashing a large amount of cash and winning information about the quarantine zone.[2]
* On their entrance to Wallarch, the wonch noticed Emerich watching them and gave chase.[3]

<hr>
fn1. [[Session 5: The Investigation Begins | Session 5: The Investigation Begins]]

fn2. [[Session 5: The Investigation Begins | Session 5: The Investigation Begins]]

fn3. [[Session 6: Wallarch | Session 6: Wallarch]] — Wallarch chase; Emerich assaulted.

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
h2. Relation to City Cats (felines)

Unrelated. **City Cats** are actual felines - the informal network [[:amanira | Amanira]] can speak to via wild shape or [[:rossin-ros-greyhirst | Ros]]'s _Speak with Animals_ (see [[The City Cats | The City Cats]]; e.g. [[:pads-silently | Pads-Silently]], [[:hunts-by-night | Hunts-By-Night]]). **Black Cats** have never considered using them; from a cat's perspective Black Cats are just more people. Do not conflate the factions or tags.

h2. Internal ranks

Bottom to top: **Scratches → Latches → Tallies → Vault**. Intelligence and payroll flow upward; kompromat and serious commitments stay at **Tally** tier and above.

| Rank | Role |
|---|---|
| **Scratches** | Street muscle, gambling, lookout — [[:emerich-surefoot | Emerich Surefoot]] tier |
| **Latches** | Embedded operatives with specialised house access — adjutants, clerks, doorkeepers who report inward; [[:chuggaz | Chuggaz]] tier |
| **Tallies** | Logistics, fences, and money above the Latches — bracelet fraud, Stay Ledger tampering, smuggling, payroll; [[:sable-silvestre | Sable Silvestre]] tier |
| **Vault** | Shadowy leadership behind the scenes — kompromat archives, long-game pressure; rarely seen, never commits on premises |

**[[:chuggaz | Chuggaz]]** — true **Latch**, not a red herring. Embedded [[House Grimbolg | Grimbolg]] [[Adjutant | adjutant]] at [[The Fulcrum | the Fulcrum]]; passes shift rosters, servant-route gossip, and ceremony-night staffing **up to his Tally** (and Vault). He does not fence or ledger himself.

**Cutthroat's Repose contact** — [[:sable-silvestre | Sable Silvestre]], **Tally** relay for **Vault**; holds ledger extracts and adjutant kompromat; never commits on premises.

h2. Encounter building

A mage syndicate that preys on servants, debtors, and lone travellers — cantrips and cheap tricks to intimidate, not archmage duels. **Vault** leaders rarely join a street brawl; patrols are mostly **Scratches** with a **Latch** or **Tally** calling shots from cover. Sum creature XP, apply the DMG group multiplier (×2 for 3–6 enemies, ×2.5 for 7–10, etc.), then compare the total to the thresholds below. Casting and control spells raise effective difficulty beyond the raw XP.

| Level | Easy | Medium | Hard | Deadly |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| 3 | 1,400 | 2,800 | 4,200 | 7,350 |
| 4 | 1,925 | 3,850 | 5,775 | 9,800 |
| 5 | 4,375 | 8,750 | 13,125 | 19,600 |
| 6 | 5,250 | 10,500 | 15,750 | 23,100 |
| 7 | 6,125 | 12,250 | 18,375 | 27,300 |
| 8 | 7,000 | 14,000 | 21,000 | 30,800 |
| 9 | 7,700 | 15,400 | 23,100 | 33,600 |
| 10 | 8,400 | 16,800 | 25,200 | 36,400 |

*Adjusted XP thresholds for a party of seven (DMG p. 82).*

| Composition | Adjusted XP |
|---|---|
| 7 **Scratches** | 1,400 |
| 6 **Scratches** + 1 **Latch** | 1,600 |
| 8 **Scratches** | 1,600 |
| 6 **Scratches** + 2 **Latches** | 2,000 |
| 2 **Scratches** + 2 **Latches** + 1 **Tally** | 2,800 |
| 8 **Scratches** + 2 **Latches** | 3,000 |
| 4 **Latches** + 2 **Tallies** | 4,200 |
| 1 **Vault** + 3 **Latches** + 2 **Tallies** | 4,400 |
| 1 **Vault** + 2 **Latches** + 4 **Tallies** | 7,250 |
| 4 **Tallies** + 1 **Vault** | 8,500 |

Typical ambush against the Wonch: **6 Scratches** + **1 Latch** (1,600 adjusted) — Emerich-tier muscle with an embedded spotter calling shots.

h3. Black Cat Scratch

Street muscle; hammer and *chill touch*.

<div class="stat-block">
<p><em>Medium humanoid (any race), neutral evil</em></p>
<p><strong>Armor Class</strong> 13 (leather armor)<br>
<strong>Hit Points</strong> 18 (4d8)<br>
<strong>Speed</strong> 30 ft.<br>
<strong>Initiative</strong> +2</p>
<hr>
<table>
    <tr><th>STR</th><th>DEX</th><th>CON</th><th>INT</th><th>WIS</th><th>CHA</th></tr>
    <tr><td>12 (+1)</td><td>14 (+2)</td><td>10 (+0)</td><td>10 (+0)</td><td>11 (+0)</td><td>13 (+1)</td></tr>
</table>
<hr>
<p><strong>Skills</strong> Intimidation +3, Sleight of Hand +4<br>
<strong>Senses</strong> passive Perception 10<br>
<strong>Languages</strong> Common<br>
<strong>Challenge</strong> 1/2 (100 XP)<br>
<strong>Proficiency Bonus</strong> +2</p>
<hr>
<p><strong>Pack Tactics.</strong> The scratch has advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the scratch's allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn't incapacitated.</p>
<hr>
<h4>Actions</h4>
<p><strong>Multiattack.</strong> The scratch makes two melee attacks.</p>
<p><strong>Light Hammer.</strong> <em>Melee Weapon Attack:</em> +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. <em>Hit:</em> 3 (1d4 + 1) bludgeoning damage.</p>
<p><strong>Chill Touch (Cantrip).</strong> <em>Melee Spell Attack:</em> +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. <em>Hit:</em> 4 (1d8) necrotic damage, and the target can't regain hit points until the start of the scratch's next turn.</p>
</div>

h3. Black Cat Latch

Embedded house operative — [[:chuggaz | Chuggaz]]'s rank. Cover identity, inward reporting, and cantrip tricks to survive discovery.

<div class="stat-block">
<p><em>Medium humanoid (any race), neutral evil</em></p>
<p><strong>Armor Class</strong> 14 (studded leather under livery)<br>
<strong>Hit Points</strong> 27 (5d8 + 5)<br>
<strong>Speed</strong> 30 ft.<br>
<strong>Initiative</strong> +2</p>
<hr>
<table>
    <tr><th>STR</th><th>DEX</th><th>CON</th><th>INT</th><th>WIS</th><th>CHA</th></tr>
    <tr><td>11 (+0)</td><td>14 (+2)</td><td>12 (+1)</td><td>13 (+1)</td><td>12 (+1)</td><td>14 (+2)</td></tr>
</table>
<hr>
<p><strong>Skills</strong> Deception +4, Insight +3, Persuasion +4<br>
<strong>Senses</strong> passive Perception 11<br>
<strong>Languages</strong> Common plus one other language<br>
<strong>Challenge</strong> 1 (200 XP)<br>
<strong>Proficiency Bonus</strong> +2</p>
<hr>
<p><strong>Spellcasting.</strong> The latch's spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 12, +4 to hit with spell attacks). It has two 1st-level spell slots and knows the following spells:</p>
<p><em>1st level (2 slots):</em> <em>disguise self</em>, <em>sleep</em></p>
<hr>
<h4>Actions</h4>
<p><strong>Multiattack.</strong> The latch makes two melee attacks.</p>
<p><strong>Shortsword.</strong> <em>Melee Weapon Attack:</em> +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. <em>Hit:</em> 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage.</p>
<p><strong>Fire Bolt (Cantrip).</strong> <em>Ranged Spell Attack:</em> +4 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. <em>Hit:</em> 5 (1d10) fire damage.</p>
</div>

h3. Black Cat Tally

Logistics and money above the Latches — fences, payroll, ledger work; *hold person* and *misty step* when a shakedown turns ugly.

<div class="stat-block">
<p><em>Medium humanoid (any race), neutral evil</em></p>
<p><strong>Armor Class</strong> 15 (studded leather)<br>
<strong>Hit Points</strong> 32 (5d8 + 10)<br>
<strong>Speed</strong> 30 ft.<br>
<strong>Initiative</strong> +3</p>
<hr>
<table>
    <tr><th>STR</th><th>DEX</th><th>CON</th><th>INT</th><th>WIS</th><th>CHA</th></tr>
    <tr><td>10 (+0)</td><td>16 (+3)</td><td>14 (+2)</td><td>13 (+1)</td><td>12 (+1)</td><td>15 (+2)</td></tr>
</table>
<hr>
<p><strong>Skills</strong> Arcana +3, Deception +4, Persuasion +4<br>
<strong>Senses</strong> passive Perception 11<br>
<strong>Languages</strong> Common plus one other language<br>
<strong>Challenge</strong> 2 (450 XP)<br>
<strong>Proficiency Bonus</strong> +2</p>
<hr>
<p><strong>Spellcasting.</strong> The tally's spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 12, +4 to hit with spell attacks). It has three 2nd-level spell slots and knows the following spells:</p>
<p><em>1st level (at will):</em> <em>mage hand</em><br>
<em>2nd level (3 slots):</em> <em>hold person</em>, <em>misty step</em>, <em>scorching ray</em></p>
<hr>
<h4>Actions</h4>
<p><strong>Multiattack.</strong> The tally makes two rapier attacks, or it makes one rapier attack and casts <em>scorching ray</em>.</p>
<p><strong>Rapier.</strong> <em>Melee Weapon Attack:</em> +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. <em>Hit:</em> 7 (1d8 + 3) piercing damage.</p>
</div>

h3. Black Cat Vault

Shadowy leadership tier; kompromat and counterspelling. [[:sable-silvestre | Sable Silvestre]] at the Repose is **Tally** tier — a relay, not Vault.

<div class="stat-block">
<p><em>Medium humanoid (any race), neutral evil</em></p>
<p><strong>Armor Class</strong> 16 (breastplate)<br>
<strong>Hit Points</strong> 45 (7d8 + 14)<br>
<strong>Speed</strong> 30 ft.<br>
<strong>Initiative</strong> +2</p>
<hr>
<table>
    <tr><th>STR</th><th>DEX</th><th>CON</th><th>INT</th><th>WIS</th><th>CHA</th></tr>
    <tr><td>12 (+1)</td><td>14 (+2)</td><td>14 (+2)</td><td>14 (+2)</td><td>13 (+1)</td><td>16 (+3)</td></tr>
</table>
<hr>
<p><strong>Saving Throws</strong> WIS +3, CHA +5<br>
<strong>Skills</strong> Arcana +4, Deception +5, Insight +3, Intimidation +5<br>
<strong>Senses</strong> passive Perception 11<br>
<strong>Languages</strong> Common plus two other languages<br>
<strong>Challenge</strong> 3 (700 XP)<br>
<strong>Proficiency Bonus</strong> +2</p>
<hr>
<p><strong>Spellcasting.</strong> The vault's spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 13, +5 to hit with spell attacks). It has two 2nd-level spell slots and one 3rd-level spell slot, and knows the following spells:</p>
<p><em>1st level (at will):</em> <em>friends</em><br>
<em>2nd level (2 slots):</em> <em>hold person</em>, <em>suggestion</em><br>
<em>3rd level (1 slot):</em> <em>counterspell</em>, <em>hypnotic pattern</em></p>
<p><strong>Kompromat (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest).</strong> As a bonus action, the vault names a shameful secret, real or invented, about one creature that can hear it within 30 feet. The target must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened of the vault until the end of the vault's next turn.</p>
<hr>
<h4>Actions</h4>
<p><strong>Multiattack.</strong> The vault makes two scimitar attacks.</p>
<p><strong>Scimitar.</strong> <em>Melee Weapon Attack:</em> +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. <em>Hit:</em> 5 (1d6 + 2) slashing damage.</p>
<p><strong>Chill Touch (Cantrip).</strong> <em>Melee Spell Attack:</em> +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. <em>Hit:</em> 9 (2d8) necrotic damage, and the target can't regain hit points until the start of the vault's next turn.</p>
</div>

h2. [[:hielaman | Captain Hielaman]]

Hielaman is a thorn in the side of the Cats. He's straight laced, dogged, and upstanding - annoyingly hard to find blackmail material on. His **superiors** in Meness are compromised - he feels institutional pressure not to move directly against Vault leadership, but interprets it as politics, not blackmail. That makes him dangerous to the Cats: an honest investigator with little to leverage if he starts poking past **Scratches** and **Latches** into **Tally** books. Vault should prefer to divert, discredit, or isolate him rather than try to own him.

h2. The Black Cats and the Anathemist Investigation

h3. What the Cats know

A small group with a surprising amount of cash and brutality muscled in on the garbage collection business - they roughed up a small-time drug pusher and took over his cart. The cart theft would ordinarily cause no alarm; the ruffian in question is making a stink, but that is nothing new. Some competition among the street-level riff-raff is healthy, and the Black Cats are adept at persuading new players to pay their dues. More concerning was when the newcomers started splashing around a lot of gold in return for info, mostly any means of accessing House properties. The Cats watched them closely, believing them to be trying to set up a rival crime syndicate.

It was only after the [[The Fulcrum | Fulcrum]] bombing that they correlated the group with the sabotage, at which point the Anathemists promptly vanished, leaving the abandoned cart to be discovered by [[:hielaman | Hielaman]]. This is a genuine threat to their operation - Hielaman is a straight-edged cop and annoyingly determined. If he looks too closely, he may find the trick panels and potentially unravel what the carts are being used for.

The Cats are reasonably sure Hielaman has not yet been sniffing around the cart in detail - it is not obviously linked to anything serious and he has more pressing concerns.

**Latch link — [[:chuggaz | Chuggaz]]:** embedded **Latch** at [[The Fulcrum | the Fulcrum]]; passes shift rosters and servant-route gossip **up to his Tally** (and Vault). The Cats do **not** know Chuggaz is tied to the bombing plot; they value him as paid infrastructure. If the Wonch press him hard, Vault will lean on Chuggaz to lie, transfer, or disappear before he talks about Cat business.

h3. The Wonch (current - 31st Enean 4218 SC)

[[The Adventurers | The Wonch]] worry Vault more than Hielaman right now:

* [[:nakoma-deathwalker-mor-got-ha | Deathwalker]] flashed a huge sum at [[:emerich-surefoot | Emerich Surefoot]].[2], then returned with backup and assaulted him during the Wallarch chase.[3]
* The party is now [[Hexine Circle | Hexine Circle]] investigators with official cover, digging into the Fulcrum bombing and servant routes.
* On the 31st they questioned [[:nort | Nort]] and have **Nans** and **Chuggaz** on the list - both Fulcrum staff; Chuggaz is a **Latch** asset.

Vault reads this as an unpredictable outside faction muscling into Wallarch **and** the Fulcrum service layer. They do not know the Wonch's goals. They **do** know that heavy Wonch attention on Chuggaz could expose the garbage-cart pipeline and the paid access network the Anathemists used. Preferred response: misdirect, stall, or feed harmless gossip - not open war unless cornered.

h3. Interaction with the party

The Cats will not share much willingly. They want the cart away from Hielaman but will not say why. They will be happy with anything that achieves that: stealing the cart from impound, or getting enough dirt on Hielaman to bring him to heel. Once satisfied, they share what they know (descriptions below - not full truth about Vault kompromat or Chuggaz's Latch role unless bargained hard).

h3. Leads

* The Anathemists abandoned the cart in [[The Wallarch District | Wallarch]], near the break in the [[Quarantine Zone | quarantine wall]]. Traces of sulfur and saltpetre remained - leftovers from the thefts at [[House Beltus | Beltus]] and [[House Grimbolg | Grimbolg]].
* Descriptions the Black Cats can give:
    * **"The Bears"** ([[:georges-de-selve | Georges]] and [[:jean-de-dinteville | Jean]]) - two large men who did most of the heavy lifting and physical violence. Tails reported they operated as visiting merchants by day. **Not seen in Wallarch since the Fulcrum bombing** (they left the city). The Cats have **not** connected them to the merchant pair who returned on the 25th Enean coach - the pair have not done any further business in Cats territory so aren't back on the radar yet.
    * **"The Weasel"** ([[:arouraios | Arouraios]]) - dark hair, little glasses, neat beard. Educated - soft hands and ink stains. Not physically imposing, but annoyingly good at evading tails in back alleys. Seen only once early in the operation, then lost.
    * **"The Snake"** ([[:barnabus | Barnabus]]) - observed in conversation with the Bears, who **appeared to defer to him**. Grey hair, scarred cheek, aura of a right bastard. Fancy foreign clothes; operates out of a grand house on Ambassador Street ([[:regnif-d-log | d'Log]]'s lodgings). Spotted on rare occasions in the last month; the Cats do not operate much in the fancy parts of town. **Vault suspects he was the coordinator**, not another muscle hire.
* Tails sent to watch the Bears were reprimanded for being feckless and lazy - they swear their quarry reappeared within Cat territory without crossing watched thoroughfares, or entered the [[Osteomantic Archives | Archive]] but did not emerge, only to be spotted hours or days later elsewhere in the city. In reality, of course, they were unable to follow the Anathemists' movements due to not knowing that the archives are interlinked.
* The Cats never saw [[:regnif-d-log | d'Log]] nor [[:nielsenn | Nielsenn]].
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
