---
op_id: 46e3468d573f4714bd7ff0fb59d65696
op_slug: the-red-mourning
op_kind: Wiki
op_type: WikiPage
name: The Red Mourning
title: The Red Mourning
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/wiki_pages/the-red-mourning
op_created_at: '2026-07-02T15:57:34Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-02T15:57:34Z'
op_gm_only: true
tags:
- item
- jewelry
---

The symbolic ring of [[The Eighth House | House Samhain]]. A silver band set with a magnificent jet-black stone. Depicted in surviving founder art where Samhain is not erased from civic memory.

Public history treats the ring as a relic of the fallen House. A connection to it also lingers in the [[Quarantine Zone | Quarantine Zone]], where fragments of Samhain's domain still lie sealed.

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
Symbolic item of [[:mistress-lucretia-samhain | Mistress Lucretia Samhain]], founder of [[The Eighth House | House Samhain]]. The stone was later modified to hold a fragment from [[Thanismot | Thanismot]].

Samhain was already immortal as a vampire and did not eat the [[Peaches of Immortality | peaches of Zotikó]]. The ring is not a portal or rift-key. It is a tool of remembrance and a way to call to the dead.

**Current holder:** [[:mistress-lucretia-samhain | Mistress Lucretia Samhain]] (in [[Thanismot | Thanismot]], since the Seven sealed the rift behind her).

Note: not married to this, think about it more later.

<div class="stat-block">
<h3>The Red Mourning</h3>
<p><em>Ring, artifact</em></p>
<hr>
<p><strong>Rarity</strong> Artifact<br>
<strong>Attunement</strong> Required (founder or with DM approval)</p>
<hr>
<p><strong>Stone of Thanismot.</strong> The jet-black gem holds a fragment tied to [[Thanismot | Thanismot]]. While attuned, you have advantage on saving throws against necrotic damage and effects that would drain life force or maximum hit points.</p>
<p><strong>Remembrance.</strong> When you touch a corpse, you learn its name, approximate time of death, and the emotional tenor of its last conscious moment.</p>
<p><strong>Call the mournful dead.</strong> You can cast <em>speak with dead</em> at will, requiring no spell slot or material components. The corpse need not have a mouth; the stone asks, and memory answers.</p>
<p><strong>Answer the fallen (1/day).</strong> You can cast <em>raise dead</em> without material components on a creature that has been dead no longer than 100 years, provided some fragment of its body or soul remains reachable from your plane.</p>
<p><strong>Detrimental — Grief that answers.</strong> While attuned in a region thick with death magic (including [[Thanismot | Thanismot]] and the [[Quarantine Zone | Quarantine Zone]]), hostile undead within 1 mile are drawn toward you unless you succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw at dawn each day.</p>
</div>
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
