---
op_id: a3f8c2d91e4b4a6f9c0d1e2f3a4b5c6d
op_slug: the-city-cats
op_kind: Wiki
op_type: WikiPage
name: The City Cats
title: The City Cats
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/wiki_pages/the-city-cats
op_created_at: '2026-06-26T12:00:00Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-06-26T12:00:00Z'
op_gm_only: false
tags:
- Organisation
---

The informal network of felines living in [[Sindrel | Sindrel]] - not to be confused with [[The Black Cats | the Black Cats]] crime syndicate.

[[:amanira | Amanira]] can reach them in wild shape; [[:rossin-ros-greyhirst | Ros]] and others with _Speak with Animals_ can do the same. Known contacts include [[:pads-silently | Pads-Silently]] and [[:hunts-by-night | Hunts-By-Night]].

fn1. [[Session 10: Shakes Spear in the Park | Session 10: Shakes Spear in the Park]] — [[:pads-silently | Pads-Silently]] at [[Radwasp House | Radwasp House]].

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
h3. Relation to [[The Black Cats | the Black Cats]]

Unrelated organisations. [[The Black Cats | Black Cats]] are human criminals; City Cats are street cats with their own gossip, routes, and hierarchies. The syndicate has never tried to recruit them.

h3. Faction clock notes

Through Session 11 (31st Enean 4218 SC): **Favourable** toward [[The Adventurers | the Wonch]].

* [[:amanira | Amanira]] befriended the local feline populace in cat form early in the campaign and learned routes into the [[House Grimbolg | Amalthean]].
* The network knows [[:amanira | Amanira]] as **Walks-Among-Us** and treats her companions as extensions of that trust.
* [[:pads-silently | Pads-Silently]] sought the party at [[Radwasp House | Radwasp House]][1] to warn of [[:tama | the giant stoat]] and ask for aid against a predator scenting the rooftops.

They share street intelligence when asked, not formal allegiance. Opinion drops if the party ignores cat warnings or treats ferals as disposable.
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
