---
op_id: 33f4c3b14f8741a4932389bd489b11c2
op_slug: the-fall-of-the-eighth-house
op_kind: Wiki
op_type: WikiPage
name: The Fall of the Eighth House
title: The Fall of the Eighth House
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/wiki_pages/the-fall-of-the-eighth-house
op_created_at: '2026-06-24T18:42:13Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-06-24T18:42:13Z'
op_gm_only: false
tags: []
---

The destruction of the eighth founder house — [[The Eighth House | necromancers]] — in the founding era of [[Sindrel | Sindrel]].

Civic history — the version taught in sermons and repeated at the [[The Heptade Academy | Heptade]] — runs like this: the eight greatest mages ruled in peace until one of their number, the great necromancer, grew jealous and plotted the others' downfall. In a **dark ritual** they betrayed the compact of the Octarion, sacrificed their followers and rose toward something approaching godhood. The other seven houses formed a desperate alliance and defeated the threat. The eighth house was destroyed; necromancy was driven from civic life.

The [[Quarantine Zone | Quarantine Zone]] and the [[Osteomantic Archives | Osteomantic Archives]] are what remain of their work in the city.

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
h2. What actually happened

**~3245 SC.** After rift stabilisation (~**3228 SC**), earnest exploration revealed [[Zotikó | Zotikó]]'s guarded peaches, [[Thanismot | Thanismot]]'s sustenance for the undead, and [[Kosmios | Kosmios]]'s defenceless wealth. Trade from Kosmios made [[Sindrel | Sindrel]] independent and ambitious. The Circle debated **Project Riftlock** — permanently locking the rift toward Kosmios for extractive colonisation. [[:mistress-lucretia-samhain | Samhain]] dissented.

At **Fallowhurst** (~**3238 SC**), [[:lord-ablas-oestra | Lord Oestra]] — still mortal — had already pushed [[Fallowhurst College | Fallowhurst College]] toward dangerous work in his pursuit of immortality. An early **Riftlock prototype** (~**3242 SC**) let the founders steal the peaches from [[Zotikó | Zotikó]], leaving devastation behind. Six ate; [[:first-of-mabon | First of Mabon]] achieved immortality through peach-based artifice; Samhain refused and revealed her vampirism. Distrust grew.

**Riftlock (~3245)** was the mechanism of imprisonment. The seven conspired to trap Samhain in [[Thanismot | Thanismot]]; she outmaneuvered them, but the rift locked to [[Kosmios | Kosmios]] anyway and closed the Mortality gate behind her. The huge power draw **destroyed the Soulwind conduit**. Her deadwoman switch killed every necromancer still in Sindrel.

[[:lord-ablas-oestra | Lord Oestra]] cursed every likeness of Samhain from the record. Civic sermons compress the sequence into a founding-era “dark ritual”; the generation is right, but Riftlock, peach theft, and imprisonment blur together.

[[:mistress-lucretia-samhain | Samhain]] remains imprisoned in [[Thanismot | Thanismot]].

h2. Consequences today

Denied access to the Osteomantic Archives and a full eighth of magical expertise, the seven-house Circle cannot perform the highest-order reality-warping required for [[Project Kosmios | Project Kosmios]]. [[:high-summoner-nial-beltus | Nial Beltus]] favours an expedition into Thanismot to recruit a survivor or recover training materials; [[:general-alicia-meness | Alicia Meness]] opposes any risk of releasing Samhain.
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
