---
op_id: 93388607d1634c4da77ab0cd6103fbf7
op_slug: the-adventurers
op_kind: Wiki
op_type: WikiPage
name: The Adventurers
title: The Adventurers
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/wiki_pages/the-adventurers
op_created_at: '2026-01-12T22:16:22Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-02T15:57:41Z'
op_gm_only: false
tags:
- Organisation
---

Colloquially known as The Neighbourhood Wonch.

h2. Current Lineup

* [[:amanira | Amanira]]
* [[:ayr | Ayr]]
* [[:nakoma-deathwalker-mor-got-ha | Nakoma Deathwalker Mor'got'ha]]
* [[:pin | Pin]]
* [[:rossin-ros-greyhirst | Rossin "Ros" Greyhirst]]
* [[:silrie-aegiskiir | Silrie Aegiskiir]]
* [[:wilrin-racenglade | Wilrin Ravenglade]]

h2. Character Progression / Storyline Mapping

Below is an at-a-glance overview of which open plot thread will relate to which character(s) personal progression / backstory in the immediate future. I've omitted the emergent stuff such as [[:amanira | Amanira's]] alliance with the city cats and [[:rossin-ros-greyhirst | Ros's]] burgeoning relationship with [[House Grimbolg | House Grimbolg]], and instead focussed on the stuff that won't be immediately obvious.

|_. Open Thread |_. Character |
| The diminishing practice of religion within [[Sindrel | Sindrel]] | [[:silrie-aegiskiir | Silrie]] |
| Sindrel's resources stretched by an influx of refugees | [[:wilrin-racenglade | Wilrin]] |
| The [[Quarantine Zone | quarantine zone]] | [[:nakoma-deathwalker-mor-got-ha | Deathwalker]] and [[:pin | Pin]] |
| Recent arrivals in Sindrel as a potential vector for Anathemist infiltration | [[:ayr | Ayr]] |

h2. Campaign status

_Through Session 12 (31st Enean 4218 SC)._

**Current date:** 31st Enean 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])
**As of session:** 12

h3. Days remaining in Sindrel

**~31 days** (silver guest bracelets)

h2. Timeline

Chronology of [[The Adventurers | the Wonch]]'s adventures in [[Sindrel | Sindrel]], using the [[The Soulwind Calendar | Soulwind Calendar]] (SC). Grouped by date; session links in parentheses.

h3. 24 Enean 4218

* *Evening* - First meetings at [[The White Dragon Coaching Inn | The White Dragon Coaching Inn]]; Quill brothers apprehended ([[Session 1: The White Dragon | Session 1]])

h3. 25 Enean 4218

* *Morning through afternoon* - Coach journey; [[Anathemists | Anathemist]] ambush on [[The Mage Road | The Mage Road]] ([[Session 1: The White Dragon | Session 1]])
* *Afternoon*
** Coach goes over the cliff; trek toward [[Fallowhurst | Fallowhurst]] ([[Session 2: Fallowhurst | Session 2]])
** Flooded village; [[:embren-oestra | plague doctor]] directs party to the estate ([[Session 2: Fallowhurst | Session 2]])
* *Late afternoon*
** [[Fallowhurst | Fallowhurst]] orchard; [[:tama | giant stoat]] freed ([[Session 2: Fallowhurst | Session 2]])
** [[Fallowhurst College | Fallowhurst College]] explored; sigil experiments in the museum ([[Session 2: Fallowhurst | Session 2]])
** College fight; escape through the museum windows ([[Session 3: "Graduation" | Session 3]])
** Regroup at the wheelbarrow; vow to return ([[Session 3: "Graduation" | Session 3]])
* *Evening* - Leave [[Fallowhurst | Fallowhurst]]; [[Fallowhurst Outpost | outpost]]; overnight stay ([[Session 3: "Graduation" | Session 3]])

h3. 26 Enean 4218

* *Morning through afternoon* - Road to [[Sindrel | Sindrel]]; Anathemist patrol captured ([[Session 3: "Graduation" | Session 3]])
* *Morning* - [[:hielaman | Captain Hielaman]]'s rescue; prisoners taken in charge ([[Session 4: Sindrel! | Session 4]])
* *Afternoon* - Arrival at [[Sindrel | Sindrel]]; silver bracelets; [[:dulcinia-von-phthasia | Dulcinia]] and [[:pthul | Pthul]] part company ([[Session 4: Sindrel! | Session 4]])

h3. 27 Enean 4218

* *All day* - Rest day in [[Sindrel | Sindrel]]

h3. 28 Enean 4218

* *Daytime* - Individual downtime - soiree, gambling, temple, shops, [[:hielaman | Hielaman]] brawl ([[Session 4: Sindrel! | Session 4]])

h3. 29 Enean 4218

* *Morning* - [[Hexine Circle | Hexine Circle]] briefing; investigation commissioned; house interviews immediately after ([[Session 5: The Investigation Begins | Session 5]])
* *Noon* - [[The Wallarch District | Wallarch]] chase; [[:emerich-surefoot | Emerich]] and the [[The Cutthroat's Repose | Cutthroat's Repose]] lead ([[Session 6: Wallarch | Session 6]])
* *Early afternoon* - [[Osteomantic Archives | Osteomantic Archives]]; [[:micycle-smynth | Micycle Smynth]] funeral ([[Session 6: Wallarch | Session 6]])
* *Afternoon* - Descent into the catacombs; funeral disruption ([[Session 7: Into The Catacombs | Session 7]])
* *Late afternoon*
** Hall of Dragons; [[:kithrak-ii | Kithrak II]] adopted; Hall of Sages; Crossroads; [[:zalatan | Zalatan]] slain ([[Session 7: Into The Catacombs | Session 7]])
** Hall of the Founders; silver sword taken from Oestra statue ([[Session 8: The Dark Shrine | Session 8]])
** Skeleton diorama; lost in natural tunnels ([[Session 8: The Dark Shrine | Session 8]])
** [[Shrine of the Queen of Ravens | Shrine of the Queen of Ravens]]; [[The Unanswered Cry | The Unanswered Cry]] taken ([[Session 8: The Dark Shrine | Session 8]])
* *Evening* - Emerge at [[House Oestra | Oestra Leageur]]; [[:commander-locke | Locke]] debrief; [[Radwasp House | Radwasp House]] keys passed (Hexine Circle / Lithra) ([[Session 8: The Dark Shrine | Session 8]] / [[Session 9: Downtime 2 | Session 9]])

h3. 30 Enean 4218

* *Morning through afternoon* - Downtime errands - shopping, [[Knuckledusters | knuckle-dusters]], Kelferria quote pending, letters, temple vision ([[Session 9: Downtime 2 | Session 9]])
* *Evening* - [[Radwasp House | Radwasp House]]; buckler dreams; [[The Heptade Academy | Heptade Academy]] acceptance ([[Session 9: Downtime 2 | Session 9]])

h3. 31 Enean 4218

* *Pre-dawn* - Party summoned; [[:cedric | Cedric]] and the door ([[Session 10: Shakes Spear in the Park | Session 10]])
* *Dawn through early morning* - [[Merrylane | Merrylane Park]]; demon "pest control"; [[:tama | stoat]] bonded to [[:rossin-ros-greyhirst | Ros]] ([[Session 10: Shakes Spear in the Park | Session 10]])
* *Morning* - Post-combat debrief; [[:alandria | Alandria]] and the tea cup ([[Session 11: Gunpowder, Treason, and Plot | Session 11]])
* *Mid-morning* - [[The Fulcrum | Fulcrum]] tunnels; gunpowder identified; Wilrin's forensics ([[Session 11: Gunpowder, Treason, and Plot | Session 11]])
* *Late morning* - Servants' quarters; [[:nort | Nort]] interviewed ([[Session 11: Gunpowder, Treason, and Plot | Session 11]])
* *Late morning through midday* - Amalthean (Cornucopia) tour; nitre-theft theory ([[Session 11: Gunpowder, Treason, and Plot | Session 11]])
* *Late afternoon* - Oestran summons received and deferred; [[:nans | Nans]] questioned at [[The Fulcrum | The Fulcrum]]; [[:chuggaz | Chuggaz]] tracked toward [[The Wallarch District | Wallarch]] ([[Session 12: No Questions, Some Answers | Session 12]])
* *Evening* - [[The Cutthroat's Repose | The Cutthroat's Repose]]; [[:gillette-quill | Gillette Quill]] confronted; bargain struck with [[:sable-silvestre | Sable]] after [[:wilrin-racenglade | Wilrin]] demonstrated the [[The Fallowhurst Sigil | Fallowhurst Sigil]] ([[Session 12: No Questions, Some Answers | Session 12]])

h2. Party Wealth

Rather than tracking individual coins, we use a general **wealth level** — a rough gauge of what everyday spending looks like, what counts as a major financial commitment, and what quality of life the party can sustain in [[Sindrel | Sindrel]].

h3. Wealth levels

|_. Level |_. Everyday spending |_. Major purchase |_. Quality of life |
| <span style="background:#ffcdd2;padding:3px 8px;border-radius:3px;color:#7f0000;">1 — Strapped</span> | Shared beds, street food, mending kit; every purchase debated | One modest mundane item — a replacement blade, warm cloak | Hand-to-mouth; one bad week from broke |
| <span style="background:#ffe0b2;padding:3px 8px;border-radius:3px;color:#e65100;">2 — Scraping by</span> | Tavern meals, cheap lodgings, ordinary supplies without angst | One significant mundane item or minor enchanted trinket | Itinerant adventurers; no cushion |
| <span style="background:#fff9c4;padding:3px 8px;border-radius:3px;color:#f57f17;">3 — Comfortable</span> | Good meals, upkeep, gifts, bribes to lowlifes; shopping trips | A commissioned weapon or armour piece — if the party commits | Functioning party with a shared base |
| <span style="background:#c8e6c9;padding:3px 8px;border-radius:3px;color:#1b5e20;">4 — Well-funded</span> | Conspicuous cash, multiple commissions, social lubrication | Serious magic, property, or sustained undercover lifestyle | Upper merchant; attracts the wrong attention |
| <span style="background:#b2ebf2;padding:3px 8px;border-radius:3px;color:#006064;">5 — Opulent</span> | House-soiree lifestyle; money rarely the first objection | Patronage-scale outlay — a townhouse, a ship, a laboratory | Nouveau riche; moves in the same circles as nobility. |

*When to change level:* A sustained shift in fortune — not a single transaction. Windfall or ruin, gain or loss of patronage and lodging, or a session's worth of spending clearly above or below your current band.

h3. Current standing

**Wealth level:** <span style="background:#fff9c4;padding:3px 8px;border-radius:3px;color:#f57f17;">3 — Comfortable</span>

Pthul's escort fee and [[:nakoma-deathwalker-mor-got-ha | Deathwalker]]'s gambling win lifted the party out of *Scraping by*. Session 9 errands — clothes, [[:silrie-aegiskiir | Silrie]]'s [[Knuckledusters | knuckle-dusters]], [[:journeyman-galoras | Galoras]]'s delivered [[The Journeyman's Answer | The Journeyman's Answer]] — cost something, but [[:kelferria-the-smith | Kelferria]]'s plate quote is still outstanding and no deposit has been paid. [[Radwasp House | Radwasp House]] and the investigation brief cover lodging and many day-to-day costs, so disposable income goes further than the raw purse suggests.

*Pending:* Formal quote from [[:kelferria-the-smith | Kelferria the Smith]] for [[:ayr | Ayr]]'s plate — accepting it would likely require a deliberate party decision and may move the wealth level.

h3. Other assets

* Silver [[Silver Guest Bracelet | guest bracelets]]
* [[Radwasp House | Radwasp House]] — investigation base ([[:cedric | Cedric]]); [[House Lithra | Lithra]] property via [[Hexine Circle | Hexine Circle]] agreement
* [[The Heptade Academy | Heptade Academy]] — provisional acceptance for [[:wilrin-racenglade | Wilrin]] (contingent on completing [[The Investigation | the investigation]])
* Patronage promise from the [[Hexine Circle | Hexine Circle]] on successful completion of [[The Investigation | the investigation]]



h2. Known Associates

* [[:dulcinia-von-phthasia | Dulcinia von Phthasia]]
* [[:pthul | Pthul]]
* [[:gillette-quill | Gillette Quill]]
* [[:raymond-quill | Raymond Quill]]

h2. Known Enemies

* [[:commander-wake | Anathemist Commander - Name Unknown]]
* [[:arise-to-victory-over-the-infidel-hoards | Anathemist Lieutenant - Name Unknown]]
* Doors

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
The timeline above is the **canonical party chronology** — update here after each session (not on [[World History | World History]]). Narrative detail in `lore/wiki/adventure-log/`.

h2. Faction Clocks

_Through Session 12 (31st Enean 4218 SC)._

How each faction currently views [[The Adventurers | the Wonch]]. Update when play shifts opinion — a snub, a favour repaid, a secret exposed.

*When updating faction clocks, use **only** the opinion values on the scale below — no ad-hoc labels (e.g. Transactional).*

h3. Opinion scale

|_. # |_. Opinion |_. Meaning |
| 1 | Hostile | Kill on sight. |
| 2 | Oppositional | They do not like you; you are unwelcome, but they are not attacking you in the street. |
| 3 | Wary | Subject of suspicion and mistrust; you have definitely done a few things to upset these people. |
| 4 | Cool | Bad reputation or broken social niceties; as courteous as societal norms require, but no more. |
| 5 | Neutral | No formed opinion yet. |
| 6 | Favourable | Some service rendered or a few positive interactions. |
| 7 | Friendly | A welcome visitor. |
| 8 | Allied | Someone they can rely on, go to for help, and trust; they will happily fight alongside you. |
| 9 | Bonded | Something binds you more strongly than friendship or expedience; they would die for you. |

|_. Faction |_. Opinion |_. Rationale |
| [[House Meness | House Meness]] | Friendly | [[:hielaman | Hielaman]] respects the [[The Mage Road | Mage Road]] fight and clean capture of the Anathemist lieutenant; treats the [[:pin | Pin]] brawl as blown-off steam. Actively wants to recruit and sponsor citizenship — Ditchquer box is a peace offering. |
| [[House Lithra | House Lithra]] | Favourable | [[:emissary-halan | Halan]] convened the [[Hexine Circle | Hexine Circle]], backed outside investigators, and gave [[:silrie-aegiskiir | Silrie]] blueprints. [[:ayr | Ayr]] as "Fenton Woofrunner" is watched, not yet trusted. |
| [[House Mabon | House Mabon]] | Favourable | [[:journeyman-galoras | Galoras]] is eager to help — gifts, gadgets, commissioned sword to [[Radwasp House | Radwasp House]]. House treats the Wonch as allies against sabotage. |
| [[House Grimbolg | House Grimbolg]] | Friendly | [[:navinea-senetera | Navinea]] warmed to [[:rossin-ros-greyhirst | Ros]]; invitation to the Amalthean; open Cornucopia tour in Session 11. Hospitality doubles as keeping tabs on the investigation. |
| [[House Beltus | House Beltus]] | Cool | [[:alandria | Alandria]] was irritable in the morning's Hexine interviews, but her Wallarch tip paid off. Session 11: furious at park interference, then satisfied — transactional, watching for leverage. |
| [[House Oestra | House Oestra]] | Oppositional | [[:silas-oestra | Silas]] issued a formal summons over breaches of Oestran security; the Wonch kept him waiting while pursuing Chuggaz into Wallarch. Contempt hearings and sharp words, not street violence — unless the party force it. |
| [[House Goela | House Goela]] | Neutral | [[:seer-demeletas | Demeletas]] offered cryptic bone-readings, not hostility. Goela's Mabon-paranoia not yet linked to the Wonch. |
| [[Anathemists | Anathemists]] | Hostile | Active enemy — kill on sight if they can manage it. Lieutenant in custody; [[:commander-wake | Wake]] at large. Wonch closing on gunpowder trail and [[:arouraios | Arouraios]] / [[:chuggaz | Chuggaz]] links. |
| [[The Black Cats | The Black Cats]] | Wary | **Vault** sees unpredictable outsiders muscling into Wallarch and the Fulcrum service layer. [[:sable-silvestre | Sable]] accepted a dangerous sigil demonstration in exchange for information, but the Cats still prefer leverage and misdirection over open war. |
| [[The Vermillion Company | The Vermillion Company]] | Neutral | No contact since [[:lacerta-kirrahe | Kirrahe]]'s death. Locke wants the killer; party has not engaged the company. |
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
