---
op_id: c8478d23d0c846acbe6807329bdfff94
op_slug: the-journeymans-answer
op_kind: Wiki
op_type: WikiPage
name: The Journeyman's Answer
title: The Journeyman's Answer
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/wiki_pages/the-journeymans-answer
op_created_at: '2026-07-02T15:57:25Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-02T15:57:25Z'
op_gm_only: false
tags:
- item
- weapon
---

When [[:ayr | Ayr]] asked, _"Could you help me out with a new weapon for our task?"_, [[:journeyman-galoras | Journeyman Galoras]] mimicked a chuckle and gave a quick twitch of a nod.[1]

Catalogued under the workshop mark of Journeyman Galoras as **The Journeyman's Answer**, this weapon defies its own dimensions. Fitted into the crossguard is a small fist-sized mechanism of gears, counterweights, and components with no technical name. It turns without being wound and curiously never seems to slow. It is this engine that breathes life into the blade, fuelling it slowly, continually.

At rest, the sword is simply imposing. In motion, it becomes something else entirely — edges unfolding from edges, its weight multiplying mid-swing as stored energy finds its sudden release. Mabon craftsmanship holds that form follows form function, and that elegence of design is expressed through efficiency and precision, and they are correct. This sword is precisely as dangerous as Galoras intended it to be.

Delivered to [[Radwasp House | Radwasp House]] on the 30th of Enean 4218 SC.[2]

**Current holder:** [[:ayr | Ayr]].

**Stored charges:** 2 _(as of Session 11, 31st Enean 4218 SC — 1 at delivery on 30th Enean; +1 at each dawn since)_

<div class="stat-block">
<h3>The Journeyman's Answer</h3>
<p><em>Weapon (longsword), uncommon</em></p>
<p><strong>Damage</strong> 1d8 slashing (1d10 versatile)<br>
<strong>Properties</strong> Versatile</p>
<hr>
<p><strong>Rarity</strong> Uncommon<br>
<strong>Attunement</strong> Not required</p>
<hr>
<p><strong>Perpetual engine.</strong> At dawn each day, the sword generates 1 charge. The maximum number of charges the sword can hold has not yet been established.</p>
<p><strong>Unfolding strike.</strong> Upon a successful hit against a creature with this sword as a melee attack, you may expend one or more charges as a bonus action. For each charge expended, the attack deals an additional 1d10 slashing damage as the blade unfolds outward through the strike. Does not apply Sap.</p>
</div>

<div class="op-footnotes">

fn1. [[Session 5: The Investigation Begins | Session 5: The Investigation Begins]]

fn2. [[Session 9: Downtime 2 | Session 9: Downtime 2]]

</div>

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
Someone once wanted to attach the perpetual engine to a [[Spoon of Digging | Spoon of Digging]]. Experts debate which use would be more dangerous for the world.
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
