---
op_id: 65fe644e7b0e4ed0ac5a4469601a8f73
op_slug: gladius
op_kind: Wiki
op_type: WikiPage
name: Gladius
title: Gladius
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/wiki_pages/gladius
op_created_at: '2026-07-02T15:57:27Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-02T15:57:27Z'
op_gm_only: false
tags:
- item
- weapon
---

The symbolic longsword of [[House Oestra | House Oestra]]. Depicted on founder effigies and the mural in [[The Fulcrum | the Fulcrum]]. The silver greatsword on the Oestra effigy in the [[Osteomantic Archives | Osteomantic Archives]] is a pale imitation — see [[Oestra Effigy Blade | Oestra Effigy Blade]].

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
Symbolic item of [[:lord-ablas-oestra | Lord Ablas Oestra]], founder of [[House Oestra | House Oestra]]. The real Gladius is borne by his retinue and is tied to the containment of his uncontrolled evocation.

**Current holder:** [[:lord-ablas-oestra | Lord Ablas Oestra]] (carried by his retinue when he appears in public).

<div class="stat-block">
<h3>Gladius</h3>
<p><em>Weapon (longsword), artifact</em></p>
<p><strong>Damage</strong> 1d8 slashing (1d10 versatile)<br>
<strong>Properties</strong> Versatile</p>
<hr>
<p><strong>Rarity</strong> Artifact<br>
<strong>Attunement</strong> Required (founder or with DM approval)</p>
<hr>
<p>You have a +3 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon.</p>
<p><strong>Founder's edge.</strong> When you hit with a melee attack using this weapon, the target takes an extra 3d6 fire damage.</p>
<p><strong>Contained inferno.</strong> While you are attuned to this weapon and you cast a spell of 1st level or higher, each creature of your choice within 15 feet of you must succeed on a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw or take fire damage equal to twice the spell's level. This property reflects Ablas Oestra's evocation running beyond safe limits; he relies on containment armour to endure it.</p>
<p><strong>Decree of ash (1/day).</strong> When you hit a creature with this weapon, you can command the stored fire to erupt. The target and each creature within 20 feet of it must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw, taking 8d6 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much on a successful one.</p>
<p><strong>Detrimental — Furnace without a hearth.</strong> If you are attuned to this weapon and not wearing magical containment armour designed for Oestran evocation, you take 2d6 fire damage whenever you cast a spell of 1st level or higher.</p>
</div>
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
