---
op_id: 689a5e01c2214591bcd30469314707f8
op_slug: session-10
op_kind: Wiki
op_type: Post
name: Session 10
title: 'Session 10: Shakes Spear in the Park'
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/wiki_pages/session-10
op_created_at: '2026-05-20T14:18:31Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-06-25T20:35:38Z'
op_gm_only: false
tags: []
post_time: '2026-05-20T12:30:00Z'
---

h3. Dramatis Personae

[accordion]
    [accordion-item]
        [title] [[The Adventurers | The Adventurers]][end-title]
        [content]
            * [[:amanira | Amanira]], a drow druid.
            * [[:ayr | Ayr]], gnome paladin.
            * [[:nakoma-deathwalker-mor-got-ha | Nakoma Deathwalker Mor'got'ha]], a goliath barbarian.
            * [[:pin | Pin]], a human fighter.
            * [[:rossin-ros-greyhirst | Rossin "Ros" Greyhirst]], a half-elf ranger.
            * [[:silrie-aegiskiir | Silrie Aegiskiir]], an astral-elf monk.
            * [[:wilrin-racenglade | Wilrin Ravenglade]], a gnome sorcerer.
        [end-content]
    [end-accordion-item]

    [accordion-item]
        [title] Associates and Companions [end-title]
        [content]
            * [[:kithrak-ii | Kithrak II]] - an undead dragon
            * [[:cedric | Cedric]] - a butler
        [end-content]
    [end-accordion-item]

    [accordion-item]
        [title] Sindrel's Cats [end-title]
        [content]
            * [[:pads-silently | Pads-Silently]]
            * [[:hunts-by-night | Hunts-By-Night]]
        [end-content]
    [end-accordion-item]

    [accordion-item]
        [title] Merrylane Park [end-title]
        [content]
            * [[:tama | A giant stoat]]
            * Assorted [[House Beltus | House Beltus]] demonic constructs
        [end-content]
    [end-accordion-item]

[end-accordion]

h3. Paws for Thought

_Pre-dawn on the 31st of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])_

In the velvet dark before dawn, a silent visitor slipped through the shadows of [[Radwasp House | Radwasp House]] seeking [[:amanira | Amanira]]. The stealthy visitor was unexpectedly revealed to be one of the cats with whom she had formed a temporary friendship while exploring the city. Observing the clearly distressed cat, [[:amanira | Amanira]] sought out [[:rossin-ros-greyhirst | Ros]] to translate.

Now able to be understood, the cat introduced themself as [[:pads-silently | Pads Silently]], and revealed that they came with a plea for aid: a new presence had begun stalking the city - a predator whose scent stirred an ancient fear in the hearts of cats. While no blood had yet been drawn, the cats of Sindrel knew knew they were outmatched. They called upon the one they knew as "Walks-Among-Us" and her formidable companions to face this unknown threat.

In return for this boon, the sprawling, unseen network of Sindrel's cats would become the party's eyes and ears, their whispers carrying secrets from every corner of the last magical city. At least as long as the cats remembered, or could be bothered.

h3. The Rudest Awakening

_Dawn on the 31st of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])_

Summoning the Wonch was complicated somewhat by [[:nakoma-deathwalker-mor-got-ha | DW]]'s antagonistic relationship with doors. Her knock on the door to [[:wilrin-racenglade | Wilrin]]'s chambers sent it flying across the room, startling the sorcerer who instinctively let loose a firebolt. Despite DW's swift application of Chill Touch, the door and curtains were both badly singed, to the extreme consternation of Cedric. The first fire-related mishap of the day, but not the last.

h3. The Beast of Merrylane Park

_Early morning on the 31st of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])_

Guided by the cryptic directions of their new ally, the first glimmers of dawn saw the Wonch making their way to Merrylane Park - an area of forested parkland serving the more outdoorsy of Ambassador Street's residents. Within this artificial wilderness, they found signs of savage violence - small piles of sulferous dust that they recognised as the remains of slain demons littered a trail that led deeper into the trees. [[:nakoma-deathwalker-mor-got-ha | Deathwalker]] and [[:pin | Pin]], upon discovering the remains of vanquished demons, immediately decided to scoop the dust into pouches. What for? Who knows. But it's good to have hobbies.

The path ended at a clearing, dominated by an ancient, hollow tree. Peering within, the party found not a monster, but a familiar face: the [[:tama | giant stoat]] they had freed from the cursed orchard of [[Fallowhurst | Fallowhurst]]. But as this reunion unfolded, a trio of demons entered the clearing. [[:silrie-aegiskiir | Silrie]] and [[:rossin-ros-greyhirst | Ros]], having scouted ahead, took immediate action to counter this threat, and as the rest of the Wonch arrived battle was joined.

This combat was the backdrop of two realisations: First, that these were not fiends from another plane, but magical constructs given form and purpose by the summoners of [[House Beltus | House Beltus]], as indeed are all of Sindrel's demonic workforce. Second, that the demons were not acting to attack the part, only the stoat. Performing, in one of the demon's own words, "pest control". However, a diplomatic solution was not forthcoming, and a combination of the [[:tama | Stoat's]] wicked teach and [[:nakoma-deathwalker-mor-got-ha | Deathwalker's]] Godzilla impression left no demonic survivors. However, in the heat of battle, a stray fiery shot from [[:amanira | Amanira]] struck [[:nakoma-deathwalker-mor-got-ha | DW]].

h3. Burning Bridges

_Morning on the 31st of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])_

Surprise, pain, and betrayal swirled within [[:nakoma-deathwalker-mor-got-ha | Deathwalker]], a combination too great to bear. Her mind plunging into the raging inferno of her past. A raw, guttural scream tore from her throat, ranting about defending a "bridge", and insisting that the attackers would not take her soul. Lost in this waking nightmare of barbarian rage, her friends becoming her enemies.

As [[:silrie-aegiskiir | Silrie]] sought to subdue her with precise strikes and [[:rossin-ros-greyhirst | Ros’s]] voice tried to anchor her to the present, it was [[:wilrin-racenglade | Wilrin]] who found the true path back. He wove an illusion not of fear, but of memory. Above Deathwalker’s head, a glowing cube of light flickered to life, its faces windows into shared moments: a quiet drink, the triumph of meeting [[:kithrak-ii | Kithrak]], the scrawled sign proclaiming their dominance of Fallowhurst. As the images washed over her, the blinding rage receded, leaving the trembling, horrified realisation of what had almost happened.

h3. A Stoat's Tale

_Morning on the 31st of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])_

With the constructs defeated and the immediate crisis averted, [[:rossin-ros-greyhirst | Ros]] used Speak with Animals and offered the disoriented [[:tama | stoat]] companionship. The stoat had been hunting in the tunnels around Fallowhurst, ultimately finding itself emerging in the city. Disoriented, ill at ease among harsh stone buildings, an unable to find a route out, it had sought shelter in the pseudo-woodland of Merrylane Park and fought off increasing waves of demonic pest controllers. It bonded with [[:rossin-ros-greyhirst | Ros]], becoming her animal companion.

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
h3. Chronology of Events

h4. Pre-Dawn Awakening

* The session began in the small hours of 31st Enean at Radwasp House. Amanira was woken by a cat she recognised: Pads-Silently.
* Unable to fully understand the cat, Amanira woke Ros, who used Speak with Animals to translate.
* Pads-Silently, acting as an envoy for Sindrel's cat collective, reported that a new "predator" or "competitor" had entered the city, causing fear among the felines. They requested the party's intervention.
* The cats know the party through "Hunts-By-Night" (the cat from their Wallarch adventure) and refer to Amanira as "Walks-Among-Us".
* Ros successfully negotiated a deal: in exchange for dealing with the threat, the city's cats will serve as an information-gathering network for the party across Sindrel.

h4. Waking the Wonch

* Amanira, Ros, and an already-awake Deathwalker decided to investigate immediately.
* They proceeded to wake the rest of the party. Deathwalker burst open Wilrin's door with a powerful shove. Wilrin used a fireball on the door, setting fire to the room's curtains. Deathwalker extinguished the blaze with Chill Touch, preventing further damage to Radwasp House, though Cedric the butler was left to deal with the minor fire damage.

h4. The Hunt in Merrylane Park:

* Following Pads-Silently's directions, the party travelled to Merrylane Park, a managed woodland within their district.
* They began tracking the creature. A successful group Survival check and Ros's Natural Explorer feature allowed them to identify tracks belonging to a wolf-sized quadruped, which Ros recognised as the giant stoat from Fallowhurst. They also found signs of a struggle and the remains of several small demons.
* A group Arcana check identified piles of yellow-white powder as 'demon dust', the residue left when a summoned demon is discorporated. The party also found small piles of sulphur.
* Ayr used Divine Sense, detecting no celestial, fiendish, or undead quality from the stoat's trail, but did detect a fiendish presence approaching their location.
* The trail led them to a large hollow tree in a clearing. Ros and Silrie scouted ahead and confirmed the creature inside was the giant stoat.

h4. Combat: The Stoat and the Constructs:

* As the main party entered the clearing, three demonic constructs materialised and immediately attacked the stoat, ignoring the party.
* Initiative: Silrie (22), Pin (17), Ros/Amanira/Wilrin (12), Stoat, Demons, Ayr (9), Deathwalker (?). Silrie initiated combat by leaping from a tree to pin a demon.
* Revelation: During the fight, one construct spoke in a polite, bureaucratic tone ("Citizen, stand clear for your own safety.") and, when questioned by Silrie in Abyssal, stated it was performing "pest control". Silrie relayed to the party that these were not true demons but magical constructs, likely in service to the city and House Beltus. A Natural 20 Arcana check confirmed they were physical entities that could be permanently destroyed.
* Combat Actions: Pin fumbled an attack, slipping on wet grass (Nat 1). The stoat proved a ferocious combatant. Wilrin cast Dragon's Breath on Deathwalker. Deathwalker grappled and killed one construct with a blast of necrotic breath. The party chose to defend the stoat and attacked the constructs.

h4. Friendly Fire Incident:

* Amanira, aiming a fireball (or Produce Flame spell in one account), missed her intended target (a critical fail on the attack roll). The spell went wide, hitting Deathwalker who failed her Dexterity saving throw and took fire damage.
* The magical attack triggered a traumatic flashback for Deathwalker, causing her to enter an uncontrolled barbarian rage. She began screaming about a "bridge" and attacked the nearest party member (Pin), though the attack missed. Her companion, Kithrak, also entered the rage (failed Wisdom save) and missed an attack on Pin.

h4. De-escalating the Rage:
* The party's focus shifted to non-lethally subduing their friend. Silrie attempted non-lethal strikes to pressure points.
* Wilrin successfully used his action to talk Deathwalker down. One account notes a successful persuasion check, while another specifies he cast Minor Illusion to create a cube displaying a montage of the group's cherished memories. The powerful emotional connection was enough to break the rage and bring Deathwalker back to her senses.

h4. A New Companion:

With the constructs defeated and the immediate crisis averted, Ros used Speak with Animals and offered the disoriented stoat companionship. The stoat, which had entered Sindrel via underground tunnels, accepted. It bonded with Ros, becoming her animal companion and gaining the name 'Stoat'. The session ended with the party recovering from the emotional fallout of the incident.

h3. Notable Player Moments

* Feline Diplomatic Corps: Ros and Amanira’s teamwork in negotiating a city-wide intelligence network comprised entirely of cats was a masterclass in interspecies politics. Amanira gaining the badass cat-name "Walks-Among-Us" is a high honour.
* The Rudest Awakening: Special commendations to Wilrin and Deathwalker for their collaborative effort in waking the party. While DW opted for the percussive approach to Silrie’s door, Wilrin went for a full-scale pyrotechnic solution for Pin’s, redecorating the room with fire. Teamwork makes the dream work.
* Godzilla's Kiss: Deathwalker's execution of the demon—grappling it, prying its mouth open, and blasting it with necrotic breath until it disintegrated—was as creative as it was utterly terrifying. A truly metal moment.
* The Misfire: Amanira learned a valuable lesson about spell placement, accidentally barbecuing Deathwalker with a fireball. The fact it triggered a powerful, trauma-induced rage turned a classic "oops" into a moment of extreme party tension.
* The Barbarian Whisperer: Wilrin wins the "Most Wholesome De-escalation" award. Faced with a rampaging goliath, he cast what was essentially a PowerPoint presentation of the group's greatest hits to talk Deathwalker down, proving the power of friendship (and illusion magic).
* Demon Dust Collectors: Deathwalker and Pin, upon discovering the remains of vanquished demons, immediately decided to scoop the dust into pouches. What for? Who knows. But it's good to have hobbies.

h3. NPCs

* Pads-Silently (Returning): A cat from Sindrel, now an ally. Acted as an envoy for the city's feline population, brokering a deal for them to act as an information network for the party.
* Hunts-By-Night (Mentioned): The party's resident cat. Was responsible for alerting the wider cat community to the party's presence and capabilities.
* Stoat (Returning/New Companion): Previously "The Giant Stoat". Rescued by the party in Fallowhurst, it has resurfaced in Sindrel. It is extremely aggressive towards the city's magical constructs. It has now officially bonded with Ros and become his animal companion.
* Demonic Constructs (New/Deceased): Large, imp-like magical constructs created by House Beltus to serve as "pest control". They are not true extraplanar fiends. The party and the stoat destroyed three of them.
* Cedric (Returning): Adjutant of House Lithra. Status: Slightly frazzled after the pre-dawn fireball incident damaged a door and curtains at Radwasp House.

h3. Locations

* Merrylane Park (New): A large, public park in the same district as Radwasp House. It features managed woodland and is patrolled by demonic constructs. It is now home to Ros's stoat.

h3. Future Threads & Hooks

* The Pest Control Problem: The party has destroyed magical constructs that were serving a municipal function for House Beltus. Will Caller Alandria and House Beltus investigate the destruction of their expensive property? Will there be consequences for interfering?
* The Feline Information Network: The party now has a potential network of spies throughout the city. How will they leverage this new asset in their ongoing investigation into the Anathemists or the secrets of the Noble Houses?
* The Stoat's Journey: How did a giant stoat from the blighted lands of Fallowhurst manage to enter the magically shielded city of Sindrel? It mentioned "tunnels and catacombs". Could this be a weakness in the city's defences or a secret route?
* Stoat on a Leash: Ros now has a giant, demon-slaying stoat as a companion. How will the city authorities, specifically House Beltus, react to this? The stoat is clearly a menace to city services; will it continue to be hunted?
* Deathwalker's Trauma: The friendly fire incident triggered an uncontrolled rage linked to Deathwalker's past trauma and the mention of a "bridge". This reveals a new vulnerability. How will the group address this, and the fragility of her composure?
* Amanira's Reckoning: Silrie witnessed Amanira cast the spell that hit Deathwalker. The emotional fallout from this "friendly fire" incident needs to be addressed and could be a source of lingering mistrust.

h3. Loot
* New Companion: Ros has gained the Giant Stoat (now named 'Stoat') as a Beast Master animal companion.
* Allies: The loyalty and service of the cats of Sindrel as an information network.
* Demon Dust: Several handfuls of 'Demon Dust', collected by Deathwalker and Pin.
* Demon Skull: Deathwalker claimed the horned skull of the construct she destroyed. The jaw is broken.
* Goodberries: Ros cast Goodberry, and the 10 berries were distributed among the party for minor healing.
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
