---
op_id: 64cea553e6254e388e39ac1abc75eb9f
op_slug: session-8-
op_kind: Wiki
op_type: Post
name: 'Session 8:'
title: 'Session 8: The Dark Shrine'
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/wiki_pages/session-8-
op_created_at: '2026-04-23T12:58:56Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-05-21T10:13:17Z'
op_gm_only: false
tags: []
post_tagline: I Have a Bad Feeling About This...
post_time: '2026-04-23T13:00:00Z'
---

h3. Dramatis Personae

[accordion]
    [accordion-item] 
        [title] [[The Adventurers | The Adventurers]][end-title] 
        [content]
            * [[:amanira | Amanira]], a drow druid.
            * [[:ayr | Ayr]], gnome paladin.
            * [[:nakoma-deathwalker-mor-got-ha | Nakoma Deathwalker Mor'got'ha]], a goliath barbarian.
            * [[:pin | Pin]], a human fighter.
            * [[:rossin-ros-greyhirst | Rossin "Ros" Greyhirst]], a half-elf ranger.
            * [[:silrie-aegiskiir | Silrie Aegiskiir]], an astral-elf monk.
            * [[:wilrin-racenglade | Wilrin Ravenglade]], a gnome sorcerer. 
        [end-content] 
    [end-accordion-item]

    [accordion-item] 
        [title] Associates and Companions [end-title] 
        [content]
            * [[:razorbeak | Chicken]] - a chicken.
            * [[:hunts-by-night | Cat]] - a cat.
            * [[:kithrak-ii | Kithrak II]] - an undead dragon
        [end-content] 
    [end-accordion-item]

    [accordion-item] 
        [title] Inhabitants of the Catacombs [end-title] 
        [content]
            * [[:zalatan | Zalatan]] - an undead beholder
        [end-content] 
    [end-accordion-item]

    [accordion-item] 
        [title] [[House Oestra | House Oestra]] [end-title] 
        [content]
            * [[:commander-locke | Prefect Locke]]
        [end-content] 
    [end-accordion-item]

[end-accordion]

h3. The Crossroads

_Afternoon of the 29th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])_

[[:ayr | Ayr]] has questions. What happened to fell them in such a manner? [[:silrie-aegiskiir | Silrie]] plays down any concerns - it was a powerful attack from the Beholder...

Back in the room of many doors, the party take continuing necrotic damage, with [[:wilrin-racenglade | Wilrin]], [[:rossin-ros-greyhirst | Ros]] and the various accompanying animals looking worse for wear. A trail in the disturbed dust seems to show that there has been travel recently between the Wallarch Archive entrance, the door marked with the sign of the [[The Eighth House | defunct necromantic house]], and that bearing the sign of [[House Oestra | Oestra]].

[[:nakoma-deathwalker-mor-got-ha | Deathwalker]] percussively opened several of the doors revealing the following:
* **[[The Eighth House | Necromancy]] Door**: Two armies of skeletons, frozen in battle
[todo] A corridor of 8 statues, perhaps the founders of each house. Each has a silver item

With [[:rossin-ros-greyhirst | Ros]] needing respite, the gang make good to leave the catacombs, following our [[:razorbeak | chicken]] guide through the Oestra door. 

h3. Wondering in the Dark

Unfortunately, the party got lost. Off the beaten path, the magically shaped and finished architecture of the catacombs give way to rough natural rock. Strangely, the overall structure is unchanged - the regular pillared halls and alcoves continue, apparently coincidentally shaped from the living rock by natural forces. The party infer that the magic that shaped the archives is being reinforced and propagated outwards by the necromantic radiation, enforcing its pattern on the natural world. This conclusion is reinforced by the sight of a sombre procession of rats ritualistically placing one of their dead in an alcove.

Using the flicker of our torch to follow a faint whisper of wind whistling through the tunnels, we come to a blockage, a tangle of roots descending down from a tree above. They have damaged a section of wall to reveal a hidden door.

Through the door, we find the site of a massacre around a makeshift shrine to the Lady of Ravens. Each corpse wears a necklace adorned with the sign of the evil bad defunct necrotic house. Daubed on the wall in thick blood are the words ‘AVENGE US’. Unsavoury looting of various corpses occurs...

Finding another route through the shrine, we continue on, emerging from the Osteomantic Archive of House Oestra, much to the shock of Prefect Locke, who marches over, demanding answers.

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
h3. Outwards

The further out they go, the less structured the tunnels and chambers become. The basic pattern of columned spaces and alcoves for bones is consistent, but the magically shaped stone of the inward regions gradually gives way to what look like natural formations. Here and there, smaller hollows in the walls are home to the skulls of rats and moles.

The necromantic radiation is pushing the pattern outwards, the _idea_ of the catacombs leaching out into the surrounding ground. Openings have appeared sporadically in the surrounding landscape, which is how Tama got it. These are unpredictable and the anathemists never found out about them.

If the players go far enough, they will find that the tunnels curve back in on themselves, leading them back towards the centre. If they have Tama with them, she can lead them to an intermittent opening near Fallowhurst. She can also warn them about the plague doctor.

h4. Rooms

h5. Hidden temple to the Queen of Ravens.

There was once a hidden door, but time has caused the mechanism to decay. The door is obvious, but getting it open is hard. A small cult developed within the necromancers. They were not part of Samhain's inner circle, so they died here. Each wears dark robes and an amulet bearing the symbol of house Samhain. They don't have the bracelets. They died in agony, their corpses are scattered around the room. 
 
The room is small by the scale of the catacombs, but large enough to contain a few makeshift pews and an alter to the Queen of Ravens. - A god of death. Dark fabric has been draped from the ceiling so as to suggest a pair of wings reaching out as if to engulf the congregation. On the alter is an idol - the Queen of Ravens in her aspect as the vengeful reaper - wings swept back in a predatory dive, talon-tipped hands outstretched. The idol is obsidian with electrum details. Removing it is an act of blasphemy against the Carrion Queen, and will have _consequences_.

The lead skeleton is wearing the remains of armour including an elaborate buckler on his left wrist. They are sprawled at the base of a wall, their outstretched hand at the end of a trail of dark stains that spell out Avenge Us.

h5. Halls of history
 
h6. The Seven Day War

bq). The passageway opens into an enormous space - the walls and ceiling almost lost in the haze of distance. The floor rises and falls in a stone simulacrum of rolling hills, you can even see the glint of the meagre light reflecting from the waves of what appears to be a river. You realise that you are surrounded by a motionless army of armed and armoured skeletons. Or rather, as you look closer, two armies frozen in the throws of a colossal conflict. A macabre diorama whose grandiose effect is spoiled only slightly by the fact that many of the skeletons are missing parts - the floor is littered with teeth and fingerbones that, presumably, were once part of the display. A clear path demarcated by bands of silver laid into the dark stone of the floor, wends its way between the posed skeletons.

Some of the skeletons, all of them next to the path, have a silver symbol inlaid on their skulls. Touching one brings an earie light to the eyes of the skeleton as it recounts part of the battle

* A fleeing tellerite: "Retreat! Sound the retreat!"
* A houdin soldier: "Tellerite reinforcements incoming! Looks like they're late to the party. Form ranks!"
* A tellerite on horseback: "



This is the battle of the Planes of Herrman, 250 years ago. Deathwalker was dead for this but, but will recognise the uniforms of The Mage lords of Houd and the Thaumocracy of Tellerin. The room has been laid out as a sort of timeline, where the party enter the Tellerite forces are fighting a desperate rearguard action. As they pass through they get the story in reverse - the Tellerite reinforcements arriving too late, the Houd defenders defeating the Tellerite expeditionary force, and finally, near the exit, the battle of brassmeade bridge recreated in epic, propagandistic tones:

bq). The uneven floor is rent by a semicircular chasm that arcs outwards from the wall. On the other side you can see the exit - a doorway identical to the one through which you entered, surrounded by thronged skeletons (in Tellerite armour). Spanning the chasm is a narrow bridge, apparently made of brass, atop which stands the skeleton of a giant. A club the size of a carthorse is clasped in the colossus's hand, and it is posed with its back to you as if denying the crowded skeleton passage across the bridge. 

There is room to cross - the path leads over the bridge and between the giant's legs. Using it will destabilise the skeleton, causing the club to fall. Make a saving throw!

* The founding of the Magedom of Houd

bq). The floor beneath you is carved into a relief map of northern [[Artresh | Artresh]]. It is a patchwork of various stones and metals, as if assembled from some colossal jigsaw of mismatched construction. It is positioned so that Soulwind would stand at the exact centre of the room, but in its place is a raised dias with a tableau - a score of statues each made of a different material stand around a table. On the opposite side of the room behind a waist-high reproduction of the Arkay Mountains you can see an elaborate golden arch, its decorative ornamentation forming the silhouette of the city of Sindrel.

The tableu depicts the founding of the Magedom of Houd. The different materials are used to represent the various kingdoms that united - history rolls to recognise their old borders. The kingdoms were:
* *Andromus*
* Antlia
* Apus
* Aquia
* Egret
* Ara
* *Tyrn*
* Auriga
* Boötes
* Caelum
* Camelopardalis
* Carcerif
* *Venatici* 
* Brutan
* Pixus
* *Goatheim*
* Carina
* Cepheus
* Chiron
* Perseanus
* *Komodus*
* *Circaea*
* Columba
* Coma
* *Corvus*
* Crater
* Crux
* Cygnar
* Delphinus
* Eldora
* Draconis
* *Equuleus*
* Eradnus
* Fornax
* Cojunia
* Grus
* Artemesia
* Horologium
* Serpenta
* Serpentus
* Indus
* Lacerta
* Leonus
* Tenebrium
* Lepus
* Libria
* Remia
* Felus
* Lyra
* Mensis
* Macrosis
* Monoceros
* Musca
* Norma
* Octans
* Ophiuchus
* Orios
* Pave
* Sleipnia
* Medusus
* Scintallus
* Pictor
* Subar
* Austrinus
* Duggis
* Pyxis
* Reticulum
* Sagitta
* Sagittus
* Arachnus
* Sculptis
* Scotum
* Caput
* Cauda
* Sextans
* Aurochs
* Velis
* Octangulum
* Octangula
* Tucana
* Mordus
* Morda
* Vela
* Virgus
* Volans
* Vulpecula
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
