---
op_id: 6adff637351c4101a96bffca2c5f294f
op_slug: session-3-
op_kind: Wiki
op_type: Post
name: 'Session 3: ?'
title: 'Session 3: "Graduation"'
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/wiki_pages/session-3-
op_created_at: '2026-01-21T14:05:29Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-05-21T08:03:07Z'
op_gm_only: false
tags: []
post_tagline: School is Hell...
post_time: '2026-01-21T18:00:00Z'
---

h2. Dramatis Personae
[accordion]

[accordion-item] [title] The Adventurers[end-title] 
[content]
* [[:amanira | Amanira]], a drow druid.
* [[:ayr | Ayr]], gnome paladin.
* [[:nakoma-deathwalker-mor-got-ha | Nakoma Deathwalker Mor'got'ha]], a goliath barbarian.
* [[:pin | Pin]], a human fighter.
* [[:rossin-ros-greyhirst | Rossin "Ros" Greyhirst]], a half-elf ranger.
* [[:silrie-aegiskiir | Silrie Aegiskiir]], an astral-elf monk.
* [[:wilrin-racenglade | Wilrin Ravenglade]], a gnome sorcerer. 
[end-content] [end-accordion-item]

[accordion-item] [title] Fellow Travellers [end-title] 
[content] 
* [[:gillette-quill | Gillette]] and [[:raymond-quill | Raymond Quill]], ruffians (somewhat reformed)
* [[:dulcinia-von-phthasia | Dulcinia von Phthasia]], a sickly noblewoman
* [[:pthul | Pthul]], Dulcinia's bodyguard and manservant.
* A pair of [[:jean-de-dinteville | merc]][[:georges-de-selve | hants]].
* [[The Vermillion Company | Mercenaries]] hired to protect the coach, minus their [[:lacerta-kirrahe | Captain]]
 [end-content] [end-accordion-item]

[accordion-item] [title] Denizens of Fallowhurst [end-title] [content]
* Unconfirmed re-animated corpses.
* Unconfirmed surgeon wielding an enchanted scalpel.
* Unknown cloaked skeletal figures.
 [end-content] [end-accordion-item]

[accordion-item] [title] Denizens of Fallowhurst Outpost [end-title] 
[content] 
* [[:sebastian-warwick | Sebastian Warwick]] - [[House Meness | House Meness]] Adjutant.
* [[:myrath | Myrath]] - [[House Lithra | House Lithra]] Adjutant.
[end-content] [end-accordion-item]

[accordion-item] [title] The Anathemist Patrol [end-title] 
[content] 
* Five Unknown Anathemist soldiers on horseback.
[end-content] [end-accordion-item]
[end-accordion]

h3. Fallowhurst College, the revenge

_Afternoon of the 25th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])_

bq). For a brief moment, the sigil floats in the air, the blood flowing around it, coiling unnaturally. [[:wilrin-racenglade | Wilrin]] and [[:nakoma-deathwalker-mor-got-ha | Deathwalker]] both feel the twist - the moment that the magic bucks within Wilrin's grip like a striking snake, vicious and lethal. Deathwalker lunges forward in a desperate attempt to interpose herself between Wilrin and the danger he's unleashed. As she reaches him, the sigil collapses into itself, becomes a crimson point that explodes in a wave of blinding darkness.
<br>
As your sight returns, the first thing visible is a subtle red glow. Slowly your vision begins to clear, and you can make out Wilrin sprawled on his back, almost lost beneath the motionless, face-down form of DW. Burned into the right side of Wilrin's face and the scarred expanse of Deathwalker's back, raw and bloody copies of the sigil glow like hot iron. As the magical darkness dissipates so too does the glow, the symbols fading into vicious scars in the skin of your friends.
<br>
The scream of incoherent rage that accompanied Wilrin's ill-fated casting echoes within the empty halls of the college, being replaced by the sounds of shuffling movement growing closer.

- Silrie and Ros check on DW/Wilrin. DW appears to be dead - wilrin has some life left in them. They are dragged from the corridor back into the museum room.
- Pin pushes a cabinet (complete with its delightful display) to barricade the entrance to the corridor. A heavy thud is heard from the other side.
- Silrie smashes one of the (undoubtedly unique and original) stained glass windows with their staff. Pin (?) smashes another, allowing for a swifter escape. The two of them immediately exit and wait outside for their companions.

- Amanira notes that cloaked figures have entered the dark Lecture Hall and appear to be approaching.

- Throughout this, DW - despite appearing to be rather deceased - appears to be healing spontaneously and eventually awakens. 
- Pin and Silrie continue to wait, patiently.
- A loud crack as an arm wielding a sharp scalpel swings wildly through the splintered boarding of the display case. The thudding continues.
- Ayr spots a good opportunity to practice some strikes and lunges at the flailing arm with his sword. Alas, the dice will not have it, and the arm flails just a little too wildly missing the strike of his weapon and instead dealing a blind strike of its own, slicing across Ayr's arm. Interesting, where the blade has pierced flesh, there appears to be a steady radiating numbness.
- Wilrin spots the shiny and uses mage hand to attempt to steal it, though the scalpel is grasped too tightly and simply falls to the ground. A single thud of subdued disappointment is heard from the other side.makes for the scalpel, while the arm grabs searchingly.
- Whether consciously noticed or merely intuited, DW reflexively attempts to grab Wilrin to prevent them from getting to close to the arm. Needless to say that they are a hairs breath from succeeding, as Wilrin pulls of an epic rock-star slide past the arm, grabbing the scalpel and making for the exit.

- Amanira warns the group that the figures are getting a little too close for comfort... her voice ever calm and steady, a softly spoken instruction with the impact of a shout: "WE NEED TO GET OUT OF HERE."

- Ros exits the window, dangling some of her rope inside to aid the exit of the remaining people. DW, Amanira, Ayr and Wilrin all follow. They are out!

h4. The Escape...

- The group choose to flee through a narrow passge between the College and the Flooded river, with the possibility of exiting into the river itself amogst their considerations should the two-wide passage be blocked or otherwise occupied. 
- As they run towards the front of the building, the two figures within the main Lecture Hall have not been deterred by the lack of a door handle to the exit, smashing through the door instead.
- The party reaches the front and are met by the two cloaked figures. 

_COMBAT!_ (My memory has pulled a blank here)
- Silrie gracefully attempts to elegantly flip to land behind the figures, though falls quite literally short, landing instead at their feet. Regardless, Silrie manages to use their telescopic staff to make a blunt hit to the underside of one of their chins, dislodging the hood and revealing a SKULL.
- [fighting happens] 
- Something is shot through the sternum of one skeleton, effectively removing a decent portion of bone, though the bones crunch down together effectively making the skeleton just a little bit shorter than it used to be.
- [more fighting happens, Ros unashamedly plagiarises both Prey and the suggestion of the DM with a rope-tied-axe throw which misses]
- Something epic happens resulting in the other skeleton exploding.
- Amanira gathers some fragments of bone and the skeletal remains of a hand, placing them hurriedly in a pouch for future study.

h3. Regroup

- [[:dulcinia-von-phthasia | Dulcinia]] is awake and keeps trying to wonder off and explore despite [[:pthul | Pthul's]] insistance that it's too dangerous.
- [[:pthul | Pthul]] has been torn between rushing toward danger (he can hear the scolars screaching) and needing to stay and protect dulcinia.
- [[:raymond-quill | Raymond]] and [[:gillette-quill | Gilette]] are deep in conversation with the two [[:jean-de-dinteville | merc]][[:georges-de-selve | hants]], trying to get them to invest in their lifestyle course / meditation retreat idea.

- Silrie politely advises that there is a lot more work to be done on realising The Self, and the adventurers and co. go on their way, some vowing to return once they are stronger.

h3. Leaving Fallowhurst

_Evening of the 25th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])_

bq). The road is in better shape on this side of the valley, and you make swift progress as it winds its way uphill. The ominous forms of [[Fallowhurst | Fallowhurst]] are soon obscured by dense woodland and your mood gradually brightens.
<br>
After some time, you emerge from the tree-line and find yourselves looking at a [[Fallowhurst Outpost | small, round tower]]. Unlike the decorative fortification of [[Fallowhurst College | Fallowhurst College]], this is clearly a very real defensive structure - what windows there are are small and high, and the upper sections are festooned with crenellations and murder holes. Surrounding the tower is a steep-sided ditch, the inner edge of which is a vicious overhang of dagger-like protrusions of rock. The only way across is a narrow wooden drawbridge.
<br>
Next to the heavy studded door of the tower, stone hangs in the air. Roughly a meter high and shaped like two tall octagonal pyramids stuck base-to-base, you recognise it as one of the markers you've passed periodically along [[The Mage Road | the Mage Road]], although this is the first you've seen to float.
<br>
As you approach the tower a surprised voice addresses you:<br>"Halt! Who goes there?"

- Outpost set up to prevent anyone from the city wondering into Fallowhurst
- [[:sebastian-warwick | Sebastian Warwick]] - [[House Meness | House Meness]] Adjutant
- [[:myrath | Myrath]] - [[House Lithra | House Lithra]] Adjutant
- Milestone: Everybody levels up

- The adventurers are invited to sleep in beds - real beds! - that are each marked with a symbol. Some are eyes, some the oval and cross seen at Fallowhirst... the meaning of these symbols are yet to be fully understood.
- All sleep through the night and are awoken to the smell of a full breakfast being prepared.
- Ayr in particular is a big fan, and attempts to learn more of the purpose of the Outpost between hearty mouthfuls of bacon.

- As it turns out, the village by Fallowhurst College has been a ghost town for centuries. Travellers started to go missing, first a few at a time, then none were able to pass through the area without going missing. Eventually a suspicious eye was cast on the college and before long the way was shut, with the new road and bridge formed to prevent further misadventure. Thus, the outpost was built to prevent those travelling from Sindrel from meeting the same fate, though Sebastian noted that nobody had come that way from the city in as long as anyone could remember. Indeed, being posted at the tower had a reputation for solitude as an unspoken punishment for misdeed or poor performance.
- The adventurers learn of the eight schools of magic and of the Lords of Sindrel (roll credits), hearing of how one Lord sought to betray the others.

h3. The road to Sindrel

_26th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])_

bq). Those of you who have walked in this world for some time have a pretty clear idea of what cities look like. For centuries, large conurbations have tended to shrink as the political, economic, and ecological systems that supported their population density die out with the loss of magic. "City", therefore, conjures images of crumbling civic centres nestled in shells of abandoned suburbs, or even of the corpses of towns being cannibalised for building materials for the smaller, more self-contained communities that are beginning to develop. None of this is true for Sindrel.
<br>
Sindrel sits on a high promontory jutting far out over the Norward Sea. Even the city's _location_ is impossible - the barren, mountainous ground supports no farmland that could feed it, nor is there anything resembling a source of fresh water here. But that is not what captures your eye nor fires your imagination. Banners bearing the device of an eight pointed star hang from high white walls, above which rise a majestic profusion of spires and plazas. The city is clearly, ostentatiously magical. In a world where the smallest illusion can be the talk of the town, Sindrel's use of magical power is breathtakingly profligate. Above the walls, rising spires become lost in the structures that hang _down_ from above - buildings that float impossibly in the air, constructed to mirror themselves vertically in a way that defies any idea of terrestrial construction. Between and above them pass airships, great vessels with gilded prows and shimmering sails that glide effortlessly through open air with no visible means of support. 

- It isn't long before figures are spotted in the distance. It appears to be five patrolling soldiers on horseback. Anathemists, no doubt. Indeed, once they spot the distant adventurers, their path changes abruptly, heading straight for the group. One of them had consulted a scrolled paper, looked at it, at the group, at the paper, back at the group, then at their companion, at the paper, at the group, then back at the companion, who promptly takes up the paper and makes off back towards the bridge.
- Silrie wastes no time what-so-ever in immediately teleporting onto the rear of the "fleeing" horseman's steed. In an apparent single action Silrie has grabbed and de-steeded the Anathemist, who was surely not expecting their personal space to be occupied at that moment in time.
- Amanira immediately opts for stealth and attempts to hide herself at the roadside before the patrol gets too close.

_COMBAT!_
- Wilrin casts a spell, with wild magic sparking a smaller 'echo' of him which directs at the closest adversary.
- Ros uses a basic spell to communicate with two of the horses to convince them that they should desert their riders. One horse takes the opportunity to hoof a soldier before making a break for it.
- Pin strategically targets a horse (because that's what you do right? Whatever it takes to put the enemy at a disadvantage) and succesfully downs a soldier.
- Amanira steps out into clear view and attacks a soldier.
- The wild magic from Wilrin's spell locks onto one of the soldiers and begins to run at them. Rightly expecting that something dreadful is about to happen casts a counter spell which causes a tiny pair of wings to sprout from the visage's ankles, launching the tiny fey-Wilrin high up into the air right before it explodes violently.
- Silrin at this point is making their way back to the group, just in time to see the Wilrin firework.

- Two hostages of the patrol remain, what will the adventurers make of this situation now?

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
h2. New Rules

Whenever DW takes damage wilrin roll a d8. On a 1, DW takes half damage and Wilrin takes the rest.

h2. Fallowhurst College, the revenge

Start by rerunning the ending of last session

bq). For a brief moment, the sigil floats in the air, the blood flowing around it, coiling unnaturally. [[:wilrin-racenglade | Wilrin]] and [[:nakoma-deathwalker-mor-got-ha | Deathwalker]] both feel the twist - the moment that the magic bucks within Wilrin's grip like a striking snake, vicious and lethal. Deathwalker lunges forward in a desperate attempt to interpose herself between Wilrin and the danger he's unleashed. As she reaches him, the sigil collapses into itself, becomes a crimson point that explodes in a wave of blinding darkness.
<br>
As your sight returns, the first thing visible is a subtle red glow. As your vision begins to clear you can make out Wilrin sprawled on his back, almost lost beneath the motionless, face-down form of DW. Burned into the right side of Wilrin's face and the scarred expanse of Deathwalker's back, raw and bloody copies of the sigil glow like hot iron. As the magical darkness dissipates so too does the glow, the symbols fading into vicious scars in the skin of your friends.
<br>
The scream of incoherent rage that accompanied Wilrin's ill-fated casting echoes within the empty halls of the college, being replaced by the sounds of shuffling movement growing closer.

Wilrin is unconscious with 1 hp. DW is quite clearly dead, although anyone examining her with a medicine check notices that her wounds are healing, the flesh stitching itself together leaving scars that look identical to the others that criss-cross her body. Only the sigil remains clear, although over a few minutes it will fade to resemble a weeks-old burn.

DW will wake up after a few minutes, the necromantic engine that powers her having effectively rebooted. Wilrin will require medical attention.

[[:embren-oestra | The Plague Doctor]] is on the move. His first goal is to make sure subject 1 is secure - he will take any measure to position himself between the adventurers and the body. His second is to trap the adventurers for use as test subjects - the rest of the scholars have been despatched from the operating theatre to guard the exits. If the party move fast they will see the scholars arriving. Try to force them to the upper floors?

When killed, the scholars rebuild themselves although this takes several minutes.

It's probably a good idea if they find some healing potions somewhere. Any room they've not been into might contain a stash.

h2. Regroup

What have the rest been doing?
- Dulcinia is awake and keeps trying to wonder off and explore despite Pthul's insistance that it's too dangerous.
- Pthul has been torn between rushing toward danger (he can hear the scolars screaching) and needing to stay and protect dulcinia.
- Raymond and Gilette are deep in conversation with the two [[:jean-de-dinteville | merc]][[:georges-de-selve | hants]], trying to get them to invest in their lifestyle course / meditation retreat idea.

h2. Leaving Fallowhurst

On leaving fallowhurst and the valley, they encounter a guard post - a dull posting existing entirely of making sure people from the city don't wonder into the valley. It's crewed by *Sebastian Warwick*, an [[Sindrel | adjutant]] of [[House Meness | House Meness]], and *Myrath* of [[House Lithra | House Lithra]]. 

Warwick is well aware that this posting is functionally a punishment for embarrassing a superior officer. Myrath, aware that this is a hard posting to fill, volunteered in an attempt to earn some positive recognition from her bosses.

This allows us to set up:
- Introduce the floating mile marker - they've seen the ruins of these en route, including between the gates of the Fallowhurst estate.
- Coming through Fallowhurst is f*king dangerous and the party are badasses for pulling it off
- The guardpost shows signs of being recently fortified - originally a small stone tower, just a few floors high to give the garrison a better view, it's recently been outfitted with magical shielding and a moat created via mould earth.
- The guardpost flies the flag of sindrel (8 pointed star). The older equipment is stamped with the symbol of House Oestra, the newer stuff has the Meness sign (U on a stick with 2 cross bars below.)

The guards can summon transport or support from Sindrel if necessary. Long rest at the guardpost?

Potential encounters en route 
- The remaining Mercenaries
- The Anathemists
- A House Meness patrol redirected from Sindrel

h2. Arrival at Sindrel

bq). Those of you who have walked in this world for some time have a pretty clear idea of what cities look like. For centuries, large conurbations have tended to shrink as the political, economic, and ecological systems that supported their population density die out with the loss of magic. "City", therefore, conjures images of crumbling civic centres nestled in shells of abandoned suburbs, or even of the corpses of towns being cannibalised for building materials for the smaller, more self-contained communities that are beginning to develop. None of this is true for Sindrel.
<br>
Sindrel sits on a high promontory jutting far out over the Norward Sea. Even the city's _location_ is impossible - the barren, mountainous ground supports no farmland that could feed it, nor is there anything resembling a source of fresh water here. But that is not what captures your eye nor fires your imagination. Banners bearing the device of an eight pointed star hang from high white walls, above which rise a majestic profusion of spires and plazas. The city is clearly, ostentatiously magical. In a world where the smallest illusion can be the talk of the town, Sindrel's use of magical power is breathtakingly profligate. Above the walls, rising spires become lost in the structures that hang _down_ from above - buildings that float impossibly in the air, constructed to mirror themselves vertically in a way that defies any idea of terrestrial construction. Between and above them pass airships, great vessels with gilded prows and shimmering sails that glide effortlessly through open air with no visible means of support.
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
