---
op_id: e7ad041dba144a5b9b50fa5cc8bb6f8a
op_slug: session-9-downtime-2
op_kind: Wiki
op_type: Post
name: 'Session 9: Downtime 2'
title: 'Session 9: Downtime 2'
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/wiki_pages/session-9-downtime-2
op_created_at: '2026-05-20T12:24:54Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-05-26T20:35:21Z'
op_gm_only: false
tags: []
post_tagline: Home Is Where the Butler Is...
post_time: '2026-05-20T12:30:00Z'
---

h3. Dramatis Personae

[accordion]
    [accordion-item]
        [title] [[The Adventurers | The Adventurers]][end-title]
        [content]
            * [[:amanira | Amanira]], a drow druid.
            * [[:ayr | Ayr]], gnome paladin.
            * [[:nakoma-deathwalker-mor-got-ha | Nakoma Deathwalker Mor'got'ha]], a goliath barbarian.
            * [[:pin | Pin]], a human fighter.
            * [[:rossin-ros-greyhirst | Rossin "Ros" Greyhirst]], a half-elf ranger.
            * [[:silrie-aegiskiir | Silrie Aegiskiir]], an astral-elf monk.
            * [[:wilrin-racenglade | Wilrin Ravenglade]], a gnome sorcerer.
        [end-content]
    [end-accordion-item]

    [accordion-item]
        [title] Associates and Companions [end-title]
        [content]
            * [[:razorbeak | Chicken]] - a chicken.
            * [[:hunts-by-night | Cat]] - a cat.
        [end-content]
    [end-accordion-item]

    [accordion-item]
        [title] [[House Oestra | House Oestra]] [end-title]
        [content]
            * [[:commander-locke | Prefect Locke]]
        [end-content]
    [end-accordion-item]

    [accordion-item]
        [title] [[House Mabon | House Mabon]] [end-title]
        [content]
            * [[:journeyman-galoras | Journeyman Galoras]]
            * [[:kelferria-the-smith | Kelferria the Smith]]
        [end-content]
    [end-accordion-item]

    [accordion-item]
        [title] [[Radwasp House | Radwasp House]] [end-title]
        [content]
            * [[:cedric | Cedric]] - butler
        [end-content]
    [end-accordion-item]

[end-accordion]

h3. A Convenient Lie

_Evening of the 29th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])_

[[:commander-locke | Prefect Locke]] wanted answers. The party offered an acceptable lie: they had wandered into the catacombs beneath an unspecified [[Osteomantic Archives | Osteomantic Archive]] more or less at random, become lost, and emerged where the tunnels led.

Locke seemed perturbed both at the apparently unknown breach in Oestran security, and that they had not followed his suggestion to investigate local weaponsmiths. The [[The Adventurers | Wonch]], apparently enamoured of a bit of karmic justice, took that as their cue to bully Locke into permitting them to conduct a stock-take of [[House Oestra | House Oestra]]'s armouries. Nothing appeared amiss.

Locke directed them to their new base of operations: [[Radwasp House | Radwasp House]], a townhouse in upper [[Sindrel | Sindrel]] with more rooms than strictly necessary and a butler named [[:cedric | Cedric]] who received their arrival with the calm of a man who had seen worse.

h3. Downtime

_The 30th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])_

After a much-needed rest, the party scattered across the city for a quieter day of errands and reflection.

h4. [[:rossin-ros-greyhirst | Rossin "Ros" Greyhirst]]

Ros sought materials for a new weapon — some manner of chain-and-spearhead contraption she hoped [[:journeyman-galoras | Journeyman Galoras]] might assemble. A letter arrived from [[:navinea-senetera | Navinea Senetera]]:

bq). Dear Rossin Greyhirst,
<br>
I extend my thanks for your conversation at the Hexine Circle. I found it to be most informative, and it is my belief that further exploration of application of systems found in natural environments to Sindrel's unique ecology would prove fruitful. To that end, I would like to extend an invitation for yourself and any of your compatriots who so choose to visit the Amalthean and converse with our leading factors.
<br>
Yours,
Navinea Senetera

h4. [[:silrie-aegiskiir | Silrie Aegiskiir]]

Silrie sought magical knuckle-dusters, then visited the [[Temple of the Dawn Father | Temple of the Dawn Father]]. In meditation they received an ominous vision warning of dangers on the road ahead.

h4. [[:amanira | Amanira]]

Amanira hunted for books on the city's history, piecing together the official story of seven great mages and the traitor eighth from tomes written by Sindrelians for Sindrelians.

One book differed - _The Rise and Fall of Houd_ is a dense historical treatise on the Magedom of Houd, the empire that once united the northern continent. Some of the contemporary documents it quotes make reference to a magical disturbance in the far north, and one refers to a party of investigators being dispatched from the Soulwind Institute.

h4. [[:nakoma-deathwalker-mor-got-ha | Nakoma Deathwalker Mor'got'ha]] and [[:wilrin-racenglade | Wilrin Ravenglade]]

The pair went clothes shopping. It was, by the standards of their recent adventures, almost peaceful.

h4. [[:ayr | Ayr]]

Always hunting for better gear, [[:ayr | Ayr]] met [[:kelferria-the-smith | Kelferria the Smith]] and commissioned an expensive set of plate armour. Kelferria mentioned being overworked by some large order — a detail worth remembering.

[[:journeyman-galoras | Journeyman Galoras]] called at [[Radwasp House | Radwasp House]] to deliver [[:ayr | Ayr]]'s new weapon: a force-multiplying sword that gathered a single charge each day and could, in principle, release considerably more power than any sane person ought to wield in a parlour.

h4. [[:pin | Pin]]

[[:pin | Pin]] received an invitation from [[:hielaman | Captain Hielaman]]:

bq). Pin,
<br>
Your ill informed and backwards-thinking opinions on ditchquer must be remedied. I have a season box, and qualifiers begin this week. Kindly join me for a few matches so that I may educate you and your friends as to why the Griffon's Talons are the absolute peak of sporting performance and all other teams are trash.
<br>
Hielaman

h3. Radwasp House

Back at the townhouse, [[:cedric | Cedric]] had built a like-for-like miniature of the building for [[:razorbeak | the chicken]] to inhabit. The cat, which had seemed out of sorts earlier, was gone.

A letter for [[:wilrin-racenglade | Wilrin]] announced provisional acceptance at [[The Heptade Academy | The Heptade Academy]], contingent on completion of the party's current investigation. Spurred by the news, Wilrin spent the evening in Radwasp House's magical training room practising control of the wild energies that coursed through him.

[[:ayr | Ayr]] attempted to remove the buckler taken from the shrine of the Queen of Ravens and found he could not. That night he dreamed of wings and rivers of blood running through the streets of the upper city — the vital fluids of the rich, pumping beneath pavements the poor were trodden into.

[[:amanira | Amanira]], deep in meditation, was visited by a cat.

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->

h3. Amanira's Books

* Most of the books about Sindrel are written by and for Sindrelians, and tell the same story of the city's founding - 7 great mages created a utopia where magic could be studied without interference or restriction. Each founded a house to study their particular form of magic.
* The more esoteric tomes mention an eighth mage - the necromancer - who turned against the others. It took the combined strength of all seven to defeat the traitor, and the cost was great. Accounts differ as to whether they were slain, wounded, or simply dismayed by the experience, but they stepped away from the octrarion circle, handing the rule of the city over to their successors.
* One book differs - The Rise and Fall of Houd is a dense historical treatise on the Magedom of Houd, the empire that once united the northern continent. Some of the contemporary documents it quotes make reference to a magical disturbance in the far north, and one refers to a party of investigators being dispatched from the Soulwind Institute.
* One particularly odd book has a combination lock on the spine, but doesn't appear to lock. It'll require. A very high wisdom score is required to figure this one out.

Navinea is genuine about her request, but also looking to keep tabs on the investigation.
Sindrel's situation is more dire than they're letting on. Grimbolg have been stepping up production to meet demand, but they're struggling against entropy. The garbage collection system has had to expand rapidly, and the has grown increasingly disorganised (thank the cats for that). The sabotage to the water system that killed [[:dogara | D'gara]] also ruined a large quantity of stored Nitre - a preservative and fertiliser that Grimbolg use to both supplement and store food, making their situation even more precipitous.
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
