---
op_id: 6a9b29c8be354a8894c6591017af56b6
op_slug: the-catacombs
op_kind: Wiki
op_type: Post
name: The Catacombs
title: 'Session 7: Into The Catacombs'
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/wiki_pages/the-catacombs
op_created_at: '2026-03-31T11:13:42Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-05-21T08:06:29Z'
op_gm_only: false
tags: []
post_tagline: Murder in the Dark...
post_time: '2026-03-31T11:00:00Z'
---

h3. Dramatis Personae
[accordion]
    [accordion-item] 
        [title] [[The Adventurers | The Adventurers]][end-title] 
        [content]
            * [[:amanira | Amanira]], a drow druid.
            * [[:ayr | Ayr]], gnome paladin.
            * [[:nakoma-deathwalker-mor-got-ha | Nakoma Deathwalker Mor'got'ha]], a goliath barbarian.
            * [[:pin | Pin]], a human fighter.
            * [[:rossin-ros-greyhirst | Rossin "Ros" Greyhirst]], a half-elf ranger.
            * [[:silrie-aegiskiir | Silrie Aegiskiir]], an astral-elf monk.
            * [[:wilrin-racenglade | Wilrin Ravenglade]], a gnome sorcerer. 
        [end-content] 
    [end-accordion-item]

    [accordion-item] 
        [title] Associates and Companions [end-title] 
        [content]
            * [[:razorbeak | Chicken]] - a chicken.
            * [[:hunts-by-night | Cat]] - a cat.
        [end-content] 
    [end-accordion-item]

    [accordion-item] 
        [title] Denizens of [[The Wallarch District | the Wallarch district]] [end-title] 
        [content]
            * [[:emerich-surefoot | Emerich Surefoot]] - a ruffian.
            * [[:micycle-smynth | Micycle Smynth, deceased]] - a corpse.
            * Various mourners
            * A [[:celebrant-alruna | celebrant]] and two underlings who work at the [[Osteomantic Archives | Osteomantic Archives]]
        [end-content] 
    [end-accordion-item]

    [accordion-item] 
        [title] Inhabitants of the Catacombs [end-title] 
        [content]
            * [[:kithrak-ii | Kithrak II]] - an undead dragon
            * [[:zalatan | Zalatan]] - an undead beholder
        [end-content] 
    [end-accordion-item]

[end-accordion]

h3. Heading Down

_Afternoon of the 29th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])_

bq). The stairs lead down into a vaulted space punctuated by stone pillars, the dry air growing colder as you descend. As in the rooms above, the walls are lined with skull-populated alcoves. You recognise the pattern from the main hall - the alcoves are densely populated near the stairs, growing more sparse further into the room. In the weak light filtering down behind you, you can make out passageways leading off from the other three walls.

The party's departure from the funeral of [[:micycle-smynth | Micycle Smynth]] lacked the dignity the occasion deserved. Robes were stolen, mortal remains were briefly airborne, and the officiants were avoided only by the narrowest of margins and a timely vision of the [[:embren-oestra | plague doctor]] that sent everyone running in the opposite direction.

They chose the passageway that led toward the quarantine zone.

h3. The Hall of Dragons

The first great chamber held the skeleton of a colossal black dragon suspended from the ceiling, with a gallery above and smaller draconic remains arranged below. This was [[:kithrak-the-black | Kithrak the Black]] — or what remained of him.

Movement came from the skull. A miniature black dragon, nesting inside the colossal one, scrambled down to investigate the intruders. The party adopted [[:kithrak-ii | Kithrak II]], slayer of mice, on the spot.

The deeper they went, the stronger the necromantic presence became — a slow, ambient harm that seemed to reanimate stored remains in inverse proportion to their size. [[:kithrak-ii | Kithrak II]], being the smallest, was the liveliest. [[:rossin-ros-greyhirst | Ros]] and [[:silrie-aegiskiir | Silrie]], reading the labels and arrangements, pieced together the archives' original purpose: in a society where _Speak with Dead_ was commonplace, the dead themselves were a library. Each skeleton was an expert waiting to be consulted.

White chalk marked a path through the tunnels. [[:pin | Pin]], deciding discretion was the better part of leaving evidence for whoever had come before, rubbed the marks away.

h3. The Hall of Sages

A dozen skeletons sat in grand chairs before lecterns, scholars frozen mid-seminar. [[:wilrin-racenglade | Wilrin]] acquired a fresh set of archive robes. Nobody touched the lecterns. Some lessons are learned the hard way; others are simply observed and filed under "later."

h3. The Crossroads

The passageways opened into a nonagonal chamber with nine doors. Each bore a house sigil save the entrance they had used. Two doors were chalked: one marked [[House Oestra | House Oestra]], the other the sigil of [[The Eighth House | the defunct necromantic house]].

h3. The Hall of Aberrations

Beyond lay stranger bones — illithid, otyugh, slaad, and a beholder suspended among them like a malignant pearl.

[[:ayr | Ayr]] woke [[:zalatan | the beholder]] with an ill-considered stretch. Combat followed. [[:ayr | Ayr]] landed a solid blow before [[:amanira | Amanira]]'s thunderwave caught friend and foe alike; [[:ayr | Ayr]] failed to dodge his own party and dropped into unconsciousness with unfortunate thoroughness.

[[:rossin-ros-greyhirst | Ros]] could not negotiate peace with an undead eye tyrant. [[:nakoma-deathwalker-mor-got-ha | Deathwalker]], [[:pin | Pin]], and [[:wilrin-racenglade | Wilrin]] finished what remained of [[:zalatan | Zalatan]]. The party took rubbings of the sigils on the walls and retreated toward the surface, the necrotic weight of the depths pressing harder with every step they took inward.

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
1. Talk to celebrant Alruna?
2. Head into the catacombs
3. Whichever way they pick leads outwards (unless they specifically try to figure out the direction). They meet Tama and Probably have a run-in with the plague doctor.
3a. Tama lets them know about the exit to fallowhurst. If they find it, they realise that the catacombs are not spatially coherent.
4. They turn inwards, following the path of the anathemists
5. Ultimately they will be forced to turn back by magical radiation. When they do they'll find the _other_ set of markings that lead to the Oestra estate.
6. Talk to prefect Locke? They'll be in the Castrum, and he'll probably be quite concerned about how they got in.

h2. [[:celebrant-alruna | Celebrant Alruna]]

* The archives are not security conscious - there is little worth stealing, the bones are magically protected.
* There are absolutely gaps where people could come and go without being noticed - the curators come and go freely but there's rarely somebody there after dark.
* If prompted, she does recall a higher than usual number of odd noises and an occasional sense of being watched, but nothing she'd put any stock in.
* The closer regions of the catacombs are well mapped, but there is little or no reason to go further - the immediate area is nowhere close to full.
* People have occasionally ventured further, but often get lost. There's a rumour that the passageways move when you're not looking at them, creating an impossible labyrinth. Alruna doesn't place any stock in this.
* Alruna is, perhaps despite her role, deeply pragmatic and cynical. She views religion as a balm for the credulous, even while insisting that their beliefs are respected.

h2. The Catacombs

h3. General

- Something is hunting them. [[:tama | Tama the Giant Stoat]] found her way in via a distant opening, and will intervene if the players are threatened.

Potential directions: inwards, outwards, around.

h3. Close

Each opening leads to a short passageway. One leads to a storage space full of broken furniture, terminating in a walled-off doorway. The others lead inwards and outwards.

Experienced trackers might be able to find a few trails. 

h3. Outwards

The further out they go, the less structured the tunnels and chambers become. The basic pattern of columned spaces and alcoves for bones is consistent, but the magically shaped stone of the inward regions gradually gives way to what look like natural formations. Here and there, smaller hollows in the walls are home to the skulls of rats and moles.

The necromantic radiation is pushing the pattern outwards, the _idea_ of the catacombs leaching out into the surrounding ground. Openings have appeared sporadically in the surrounding landscape, which is how Tama got it. These are unpredictable and the anathemists never found out about them.

If the players go far enough, they will find that the tunnels curve back in on themselves, leading them back towards the centre. If they have Tama with them, she can lead them to an intermittent opening near Fallowhurst. She can also warn them about the plague doctor.

h4. Rooms

h5. Hidden temple to the Queen of Ravens.

There was once a hidden door, but time has caused the mechanism to decay. The door is obvious, but getting it open is hard. A small cult developed within the necromancers. They were not part of Samhain's inner circle, so they died here. Each wears dark robes and an amulet bearing the symbol of house Samhain. They don't have the bracelets. They died in agony, their corpses are scattered around the room. 
 
The room is small by the scale of the catacombs, but large enough to contain a few makeshift pews and an alter to the Queen of Ravens. - A god of death. Dark fabric has been draped from the ceiling so as to suggest a pair of wings reaching out as if to engulf the congregation. On the alter is an idol - the Queen of Ravens in her aspect as the vengeful reaper - wings swept back in a predatory dive, talon-tipped hands outstretched. The idol is obsidian with electrum details. Removing it is an act of blasphemy against the Carrion Queen, and will have _consequences_.

In the hand of the lead skeleton is a knife, it is extremely cursed. Anyone picking it up will need to make a wisdom saving throw.


h4. Hazards

* Areas of disrepair - tree roots have broken through from above, threatening to choke the passageway
* Flooded section
* [[:embren-oestra | The Plague Doctor]] - Like Tama, he found a way into the catacombs. Unlike her, he's actively lost and very grumpy about it. He's making his way towards the party by using fragments of the skeletons they inhaled, having constructed a rudimentary 'compass' using wrist bones from the hand that Amanira has in her pouch.

h3. Inwards

The catacombs become less travelled, but also more museum-like. Occasional chalk markings show the path of the Anathemists - once the party know what they're looking for it's easy to follow. 

The necromantic radiation gets stronger the closer they get to the center. Start doing constitution saves for each room - 1/2 damage on passed saves with a fibonnacci rise in danger.

h4. Rooms

h5. Hall of Sages

a dozen or so skeletons in grand chairs. Each is an expert in a particular area of history. Activating the lectern in front of each will get a few broken words, but the magic isn't there for full conversation.

h5. Hall of Dragons

The skeleton of a colossal black dragon is suspended from the ceiling. Stairs lead up to a gallery offering a better view. The rest of the room is dotted with examples or smaller dragon skeletons, or incomplete ones.  - Skeleton of a miniature black dragon is nesting inside the skull of the big one. They'll hear movement from above, bone grinding on bone.

h5. Hall of aberrations: 

* beholder
* mind flayer
* otyugh - a grotesque, bulbous creature borne along on three sturdy legs, its eyes and nose set along a vine-like stalk that snakes from the top of its bloated body. Two rubbery tentacles end in spiky, leaf-like appendages that the otyugh uses to shovel food into its gaping maw
* slaad - frog person
* Beholder Zombie - https://www.dndbeyond.com/encounters/55d6c288-992d-45f0-afee-0f8c65732901
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
