---
op_id: 1f1dcd47ef314d36b701fced4db451c8
op_slug: alandria
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Caller Alandria
title: Caller Alandria
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/alandria
op_created_at: '2026-01-27T21:12:55Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-04T11:15:59Z'
op_gm_only: false
is_player_character: false
tags:
- House Beltus
- Factor
- she/her
avatar_url: https://db4sgowjqfwig.cloudfront.net/images/7469955/beltus.jpg
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
You see a human woman with dark skin and a slender, upright build, her head shaved smooth. She wears [[House Beltus | Beltus]] formal dress: a long black silk robe with gold embroidery at collar and cuffs, sheer smoke-coloured veils at the shoulders, and a high starched collar — the sort of garment that implies unseen servants helping her through every doorway. A mephit perches on her shoulder, the mark of a Beltus summoner. She presents as effortlessly confident and personable, though irritation shows quickly when bureaucracy wastes her time. Her voice stays soft and even, yet carries an authority that expects to be heard without repetition.

<!-- OP_BIO -->
[[Factor | Factor]] of [[House Beltus | House Beltus]].

* *29th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Joined the [[Hexine Circle | Hexine Circle]] convened in the morning after the Anathemist leak was discovered.
** Interviewed by [[:wilrin-racenglade | Wilrin]] and [[:nakoma-deathwalker-mor-got-ha | Deathwalker]] immediately afterward; the conversation turned contentious when frustration with the investigation process showed.
* *31st of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Met [[The Adventurers | the Wonch]] at the edge of [[Merrylane | Merrylane Park]] after they destroyed Beltus pest-control constructs; furious at the interference, then grudgingly accepted that the stoat threat was resolved.
** [[:wilrin-racenglade | Wilrin]] magically retrieved her teacup and traded it back for a pouch of fine imported tea.

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
h2. Spies lead

bq). The Osteomantic Archives. Think about it – they must have a base of operations – somewhere their comings and goings won't be noticed. Somewhere well trafficked but anonymous. People go in and out of the archives all the time, but nobody stays long. And, nobody thinks much of it if you're a bit strange. The catacombs are a labyrinth, and they're chronically understaffed. You could hide anything down there.
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
