---
op_id: a89336819da9492ab3cf1d3cbda7436b
op_slug: arise-to-victory-over-the-infidel-hoards
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Anathemist Lieutenant - Name Unknown
title: Anathemist Lieutenant - Name Unknown
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/arise-to-victory-over-the-infidel-hoards
op_created_at: '2026-01-29T11:41:03Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-05T09:27:15Z'
op_gm_only: false
is_player_character: false
tags:
- Anathemist
- he/him
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->


<!-- OP_BIO -->
* *26th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Captured by [[The Adventurers | the Wonch]] after an [[Anathemists | Anathemist]] patrol skirmish on the road to [[Sindrel | Sindrel]] (morning).[1]
** [[:hielaman | Captain Hielaman]] and [[House Meness | House Meness]] soldiers arrived to take charge of the prisoner.[2]
* *29th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Interrogated by [[:hielaman | Captain Hielaman]] before the [[Hexine Circle | Hexine Circle]] convened; his testimony exposed that the Anathemists had access to sensitive information could only have been obtained by infiltrating one of the Houses.[3]

<hr>
fn1. [[Session 3: "Graduation" | Session 3: "Graduation"]]

fn2. [[Session 4: Sindrel! | Session 4: Sindrel!]]

fn3. [[Session 5: The Investigation Begins | Session 5: The Investigation Begins]]

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
Captured after the Anathemist patrol skirmish on the road from [[Fallowhurst | Fallowhurst]]; interrogated by [[:hielaman | Captain Hielaman]] before the [[Hexine Circle | Hexine Circle]] convened. His zealot name is *Arise To Victory Over The Infidel Hoards*.

<div class="stat-block">
<h3>Anathemist Lieutenant</h3>
<p><em>Medium humanoid (any race), lawful neutral</em></p>
<p><strong>Armor Class</strong> 16 (breastplate, shield)<br>
<strong>Hit Points</strong> 39 (6d8 + 12)<br>
<strong>Speed</strong> 30 ft.<br>
<strong>Initiative</strong> +1</p>
<hr>
<table>
    <tr><th>STR</th><th>DEX</th><th>CON</th><th>INT</th><th>WIS</th><th>CHA</th></tr>
    <tr><td>16 (+3)</td><td>12 (+1)</td><td>14 (+2)</td><td>11 (+0)</td><td>14 (+2)</td><td>13 (+1)</td></tr>
</table>
<hr>
<p><strong>Saving Throws</strong> WIS +4, CHA +3<br>
<strong>Skills</strong> Athletics +5, Intimidation +3, Perception +4, Religion +4<br>
<strong>Senses</strong> passive Perception 14<br>
<strong>Languages</strong> Common<br>
<strong>Challenge</strong> 2 (450 XP)<br>
<strong>Proficiency Bonus</strong> +2</p>
<hr>
<p><strong>Anathema's Fury.</strong> When a creature the lieutenant can see within 60 feet casts a spell, the lieutenant has advantage on all attack rolls against that creature until the end of the lieutenant's next turn.</p>
<p><strong>Zealous Command.</strong> When the lieutenant hits a creature that has cast a spell since the start of the lieutenant's last turn, one [[Anathemists | Anathemist]] soldier within 30 feet of the lieutenant can use its reaction to move up to half its speed and make one spear attack against that creature.</p>
<hr>
<h4>Actions</h4>
<p><strong>Multiattack.</strong> The lieutenant makes two melee attacks.</p>
<p><strong>Longsword.</strong> <em>Melee Weapon Attack:</em> +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. <em>Hit:</em> 7 (1d8 + 3) slashing damage, or 8 (1d10 + 3) slashing damage if used with two hands.</p>
</div>
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
