---
op_id: 9d238159f301494ea08cd185326fe371
op_slug: arouraios
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: The Coachman with the Poncy Glasses
title: The Coachman with the Poncy Glasses
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/arouraios
op_created_at: '2026-02-17T22:18:16Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-04T11:20:06Z'
op_gm_only: false
is_player_character: false
tags:
- he/him
- Suspect
- Half-elf
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
You see a man with dark hair, a neatly trimmed beard, and small, fussy glasses. His hands are soft, with ink stains at the fingers - educated, not physically imposing, but watchful with an air of slippery situational awareness.

<!-- OP_BIO -->
* *25th of Ostory, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]]) - The Fulcrum Bombing*
** [[:nort | Nort]] saw a lost-looking coachman with a neatly trimmed beard and small, fussy glasses, bringing a carriage down near the entrance service tunnels during the closing ceremony. She could not name him or his dignitary; described the carriage coat of arms as something with a bird on it.[1]

<div class="op-footnotes">

fn1. [[Session 11: Gunpowder, Treason, and Plot | Session 11: Gunpowder, Treason, and Plot]]

</div>

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
h2. Zealot name

*Lay Bare Every Path the Wicked Built* — cover identity **Arouraios** (servant / cartographer); player-facing page title *The Coachman with the Poncy Glasses*.

h2. Physical description

Poncy little glasses.

h2. Role in the Anathemist Plot

Arouraios is part of the [[Anathemists | Anathemist]] spy cell embedded in [[:regnif-d-log | Regnif d'Log]]'s household, outwardly serving as a servant and cartographer. He entered [[Sindrel | Sindrel]] with d'Log and [[:marceline | Marceline]] on the **32nd of Eptan 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])**, creating a domestic retinue that appeared separate from the merchant cover used by [[:georges-de-selve | Georges de Selve]] and [[:jean-de-dinteville | Jean de Dinteville]] (who registered **33rd Eptan**).

He reports to [[:marceline | Marceline]], the cell lead, as route-finder, surveyor, and mapper.

Arouraios acts as the cell's route-finder, surveyor, and mapper. His role as cartographer gives him a plausible reason to observe streets, service passages, coach routes, loading yards, archive access points, and the shape of the catacombs beneath Wallarch. He is responsible for turning the cell's ambitions into usable paths through [[Sindrel | Sindrel]].

In the sabotage campaign before the [[Ditchquer | Ditchquer]] closing ceremony, Arouraios mapped the practical routes through the [[Osteomantic Archives | Osteomantic Archives]]. He identified places where supplies could be stored temporarily, removed, and replaced without being noticed. He also established the coach routes and handoff points needed to move people and objects under cover of ordinary city traffic.

Arouraios is responsible for the chalk marks found in the catacombs. These marks are not random graffiti, but a working navigation system for the cell: route markers, danger signs, temporary storage indicators, and instructions for moving through confusing or unsafe passages.

During the [[Ditchquer | Ditchquer]] closing ceremony, Arouraios was disguised as a coachman. After [[:marceline | Marceline]] stole [[:silas-oestra | Silas Oestra]]'s key, she passed it to Arouraios who returned to the stationary coach. [[:georges-de-selve | Georges de Selve]] and [[:jean-de-dinteville | Jean de Dinteville]], emerging from the tunnels after planting their explosives, collected the key from him.

Arouraios's canonical role in the [[Ditchquer | Ditchquer]] operation is therefore the key handoff. His broader operational role is what makes that handoff possible: he knows where the coach must be, when the merchants will emerge, and how the tunnel route connects to the rest of the plan.

h3. Timeline

* *32nd of Eptan, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Entered Sindrel as part of the d'Log household.
* *36th of Eptan, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Theft of Black Cats waste cart.
* *6th of Ostory, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** [[House Grimbolg | Grimbolg]] water-silo sabotage ([[:dogara | D'gara]] drowned); nitre theft under cover of the flood.
* *8th of Ostory, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Kidnap of [[:nielsenn | Nielsenn]]; staged shop explosion (public record: vaporisation).
* *14th of Ostory, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** [[House Beltus | Beltus]] summoning sabotage ([[:caller-georg | Caller Georg]] killed in the chaos); sulphur theft under cover of the demon incident.
* *21st of Ostory, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Sabotage of [[:emissary-isius | Emissary Isius]] — opportunistic attack to obscure the wider plan.
* *25th of Ostory, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Drove d'Log and Marceline to the ceremony.
** Parked the coach by the servants' entrance.
** Assisted [[:georges-de-selve | Georges de Selve]] and [[:jean-de-dinteville | Jean de Dinteville]] in moving the bombs.
** While they primed the fuses, entered the function and received Silas's stolen key from [[:marceline | Marceline]].
** Returned to the coach.
** Handed off the key to Georges and Jean.
* *34th of Ostory, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Poisoning of [[:f-lar-mnementh | Tyromancer Pterath]] ([[House Goela | Goela]]) — stay-behind operation; delivery routes and handoffs under Marceline's direction.
* *8th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Anonymous approach to [[:craftsman-shegrim | Craftsman Shegrim]] — courier and cover for Marceline's double-reflection amulet commission.
* *17th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** [[:major-vindas | Major Vindas]] killed by inverted reflection armour — chestplate chain traced to Shegrim commission (Marceline stay-behind).

h3. Investigative footprint

Evidence pointing to Arouraios may include sketches, partial maps, chalk dust, servant errands near archive entrances, unexplained familiarity with Wallarch routes, cartographic tools, and witnesses who remember a coachman where no coachman had reason to wait.
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
