---
op_id: 42cee9f0b8134dccab7714a196fd04d5
op_slug: ayr
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Ayr
title: Ayr
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/ayr
op_created_at: '2025-12-14T17:05:38Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-06T14:05:33Z'
op_gm_only: false
is_player_character: true
tags:
- he/him
avatar_url: https://db4sgowjqfwig.cloudfront.net/images/7457458/WhatsApp_Image_2026-01-10_at_17.20.08.jpeg
dndbeyond_id: '156087500'
dndbeyond_url: https://www.dndbeyond.com/characters/156087500
dndbeyond_synced_at: '2026-07-08T12:28:42Z'
---

<!-- OP_DDB_SHEET -->
<div class="ddb-sheet">
  <header class="ddb-header">
    <div class="ddb-header-main">
      <h1 class="ddb-name">Ayr Ravenshield</h1>
      <p class="ddb-subtitle">Paladin (Oath of Vengeance) 3</p>
      <ul class="ddb-meta">
        <li><span class="ddb-label">Race</span> Rock Gnome</li>
        <li><span class="ddb-label">Background</span> Charlatan</li>
        <li><span class="ddb-label">Alignment</span> Chaotic Good</li>
        <li><span class="ddb-label">Proficiency</span> +2</li>
        <li><span class="ddb-label">Inspiration</span> No</li>
      </ul>
      <p class="ddb-links">GEOcycle · The Lords of Sindrel</p>
    </div>
    <div class="ddb-avatar-wrap">&lt;img src=&quot;https://www.dndbeyond.com/avatars/54301/102/1581111423-156087500.jpeg?width=150&amp;amp;height=150&amp;amp;fit=crop&amp;amp;quality=95&amp;amp;auto=webp&quot; alt=&quot;&quot;&gt;</div>
  </header>

  <section class="ddb-section ddb-defenses">
    <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Defenses</h2>
    <div class="ddb-pill-grid">
      <div class="ddb-pill"><span class="ddb-pill-label">AC</span><span class="ddb-pill-value">18</span></div>
      <div class="ddb-pill ddb-pill-wide">
        <span class="ddb-pill-label">HP</span>
        <span class="ddb-pill-value">28</span>
        <span class="ddb-pill-sep">/</span>
        <span class="ddb-pill-value">28</span>
      </div>
      <div class="ddb-pill"><span class="ddb-pill-label">Temp</span><span class="ddb-pill-value">0</span></div>
      <div class="ddb-pill"><span class="ddb-pill-label">Speed</span><span class="ddb-pill-value">25 ft.</span></div>
      <div class="ddb-pill"><span class="ddb-pill-label">Init</span><span class="ddb-pill-value">+1</span></div>
      <div class="ddb-pill"><span class="ddb-pill-label">Hit Dice</span><span class="ddb-pill-value"></span></div>
    </div>
  </section>

  <div class="ddb-columns">
    <section class="ddb-section">
      <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Abilities</h2>
      <div class="ddb-ability-grid">
        <div class="ddb-ability"><span class="ddb-ability-label">STR</span><span class="ddb-ability-value">18 (+4)</span></div>
        <div class="ddb-ability"><span class="ddb-ability-label">DEX</span><span class="ddb-ability-value">12 (+1)</span></div>
        <div class="ddb-ability"><span class="ddb-ability-label">CON</span><span class="ddb-ability-value">15 (+2)</span></div>
        <div class="ddb-ability"><span class="ddb-ability-label">INT</span><span class="ddb-ability-value">9 (-1)</span></div>
        <div class="ddb-ability"><span class="ddb-ability-label">WIS</span><span class="ddb-ability-value">10 (+0)</span></div>
        <div class="ddb-ability"><span class="ddb-ability-label">CHA</span><span class="ddb-ability-value">18 (+4)</span></div>
      </div>
      <h3 class="ddb-subsection-title">Saving Throws</h3>
      <div class="ddb-block">STR +4<br>
DEX +1<br>
CON +2<br>
INT -1<br>
WIS +0<br>
CHA +4</div>
    </section>

    <section class="ddb-section">
      <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Skills &amp; Senses</h2>
      <div class="ddb-block">Athletics +6 *<br>
Deception +6 *<br>
Intimidation +6 *<br>
Sleight Of Hand +3 *</div>
      <div class="ddb-sense-row">
        <div><span class="ddb-sense-label">Passive Perception</span><span class="ddb-sense-value">10</span></div>
        <div><span class="ddb-sense-label">Passive Investigation</span><span class="ddb-sense-value">9</span></div>
        <div><span class="ddb-sense-label">Passive Insight</span><span class="ddb-sense-value">10</span></div>
      </div>
    </section>
  </div>

  <section class="ddb-section">
    <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Actions</h2>
    <div class="ddb-block">The Journeyman&#x27;s Answer. +6 to hit, range 5 ft., 1d8 slashing<br>
Javelin. +6 to hit, range 30 ft., 1d6 piercing<br>
Harness Divine Power. You can expend a use of your Channel Divinity to fuel your spells. As a bonus action, you touch your holy symbol, utter a prayer, and regain one expended spell slot, which can be no higher than level . You regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest.<br>
Divine Sense. As an action, you can detect good and evil. Until the end of your next turn, you can sense anything affected by the hallow spell or know the location of any celestial, fiend, undead within 60 ft. that is not behind total cover. You can use this feature times per long rest.<br>
Lay on Hands Pool. You have a pool of healing power that can restore HP per long rest. As an action, you can touch a creature to restore any number of HP remaining in the pool, or 5 HP to either cure a disease or neutralize a poison affecting the creature.<br>
Channel Divinity. Your oath allows you to channel divine energy to fuel magical effects. When you use your Channel Divinity, you choose which option to use. You must then finish a short or long rest to use your Channel Divinity again. Some Channel Divinity effects require saving throws (DC ).<br>
Divine Smite. When you hit with a melee weapon attack, you can expend one spell slot to deal 2d8 extra radiant damage to the target plus 1d8 for each spell level higher than 1st (max 5d8) and plus 1d8 against undead or fiends.<br>
Channel Divinity: Abjure Enemy. As an action, you can choose one creature within 60 ft. of you that you can see to make a WIS saving throw (). Fiends and undead have disadvantage on this saving throw. On failure, the creature is frightened and its speed is reduced to 0 (and it can&#x27;t benefit from bonuses to speed) for 1 minute or until it takes any damage. On success, the creature’s speed is halved for 1 minute or until the creature takes any damage.<br>
Channel Divinity: Vow of Enmity. You can choose a creature you can see within 10 ft. of you and gain advantage on attack rolls against it for 1 minute or until it drops to 0 HP or falls unconscious.</div>
  </section>

  <section class="ddb-section">
    <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Limited Use</h2>
    <div class="ddb-block">Harness Divine Power (1/long rest). You can expend a use of your Channel Divinity to fuel your spells. As a bonus action, you touch your holy symbol, utter a prayer, and regain one expended spell slot, which can be no higher than level . You regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest.<br>
Divine Sense (1/long rest). As an action, you can detect good and evil. Until the end of your next turn, you can sense anything affected by the hallow spell or know the location of any celestial, fiend, undead within 60 ft. that is not behind total cover. You can use this feature times per long rest.<br>
Lay on Hands Pool (15/long rest). You have a pool of healing power that can restore HP per long rest. As an action, you can touch a creature to restore any number of HP remaining in the pool, or 5 HP to either cure a disease or neutralize a poison affecting the creature.<br>
Channel Divinity (1/short rest). Your oath allows you to channel divine energy to fuel magical effects. When you use your Channel Divinity, you choose which option to use. You must then finish a short or long rest to use your Channel Divinity again. Some Channel Divinity effects require saving throws (DC ).</div>
  </section>

  <section class="ddb-section">
    <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Features &amp; Traits</h2>
    <div class="ddb-block">Darkvision. You can see in darkness (shades of gray) up to 60 ft.<br>
Gnome Cunning. You have advantage on all Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma saving throws against magic.<br>
Ability Score Increase. Your Intelligence score increases by 2.<br>
Languages. You can speak, read, and write Common and Gnomish. The Gnomish language, which uses the Dwarvish script, is renowned for its technical treatises and its catalogs of knowledge about the natural world.<br>
Age. Gnomes mature at the same rate humans do, and most are expected to settle down into an adult life by around age 40. They can live 350 to almost 500 years.<br>
Size. Gnomes are between 3 and 4 feet tall and average about 40 pounds. Your size is Small.<br>
Speed. Your base walking speed is 25 feet.<br>
Artificer’s Lore. Add twice your proficiency bonus to History checks related to magic items, alchemical objects, or technological devices.<br>
Tinker. You are proficient with tinker&#x27;s tools and can use them to construct tiny clockwork devices.<br>
Ability Score Increase. Your Constitution score increases by 1.<br>
Channel Divinity. You gain two Channel Divinity options: Abjure Enemy. As an action, you can choose one creature within 60 ft. of you that you can see to make a WIS saving throw (). Fiends and undead have disadvantage on this saving throw. On failure, the creature is frightened and its speed is reduced to 0 (and it can&#x27;t benefit from bonuses to speed) for 1 minute or until it takes any damage. On success, the creature’s speed is halved for 1 minute or until the creature takes any damage. Vow of Enmity. As a bonus action, you can choose a creature you can see within 10 ft. of you and gain advantage on attack rolls against it for 1 minute or until it drops to 0 HP or falls unconscious.<br>
Oath Spells. You gain oath spells based on your level that are always prepared and don&#x27;t count against your daily number of prepared spells.<br>
Divine Sense. As an action, you can detect good and evil. Until the end of your next turn, you can sense anything affected by the hallow spell or know the location of any celestial, fiend, undead within 60 ft. that is not behind total cover. You can use this feature times per long rest.<br>
Lay on Hands. You have a pool of healing power that can restore HP per long rest. As an action, you can touch a creature to restore any number of HP remaining in the pool, or 5 HP to either cure a disease or neutralize a poison affecting the creature.<br>
Fighting Style. You adopt a style of fighting as your specialty.<br>
Spellcasting. You can cast prepared paladin spells using CHA as your spellcasting modifier (Spell DC , Spell Attack ). You can use a holy symbol as a spellcasting focus.<br>
Divine Smite. When you hit with a melee weapon attack, you can expend one spell slot to deal 2d8 extra radiant damage to the target plus 1d8 for each spell level higher than 1st (max 5d8) and plus 1d8 against undead or fiends (max 6d8 total).<br>
Divine Health. You are immune to disease.<br>
Sacred Oath. When you reach 3rd level, you swear the oath that binds you as a paladin forever. Up to this time you have been in a preparatory stage, committed to the path but not yet sworn to it. Now you choose the Oath of Devotion detailed at the end of the class description or one from another source. Your choice grants you features at 3rd level and again at 7th, 15th, and 20th level. Those features include oath spells and the Channel Divinity feature. Oath Spells Each oath has a list of associated spells. You gain access to these spells at the levels specified in the oath description. Once you gain access to an oath spell, you always have it prepared. Oath spells don’t count against the number of spells you can prepare each day. If you gain an oath spell that doesn’t appear on the paladin spell list, the spell is nonetheless a paladin spell for you. Channel Divinity Your oath allows you to channel divine energy to fuel magical effects. Each Channel Divinity option provided by your oath explains how to use it. When you use your Channel Divinity, you choose which option to use. You must then finish a short or long rest to use your Channel Divinity again. Some Channel Divinity effects require saving throws. When you use such an effect from this class, the DC equals your paladin spell save DC.<br>
Proficiencies. Armor: All armor, shields Weapons: Simple weapons, martial weapons Tools: None Saving Throws: Wisdom, Charisma Skills: Choose two from Athletics, Insight, Intimidation, Medicine, Persuasion, and Religion<br>
Hit Points. Hit Dice: 1d10 per paladin level Hit Points at 1st Level: 10 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d10 (or 6) + your Constitution modifier per paladin level after 1st<br>
Equipment. You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background: (a) a martial weapon and a shield or (b) two martial weapons (a) five javelins or (b) any simple melee weapon (a) a priest’s pack or (b) an explorer’s pack Chain mail and a holy symbol<br>
Hero&#x27;s Journey Boon. At your GM&#x27;s discretion you have been granted a Hero&#x27;s Journey Boon.<br>
Dark Bargain. At your GM&#x27;s discretion, you have taken a Dark Bargain.</div>
  </section>

  <section class="ddb-section">
    <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Proficiencies &amp; Training</h2>
    <div class="ddb-kv"><span class="ddb-label">Proficiencies</span><span class="ddb-kv-value">Heavy Armor, Light Armor, Medium Armor, Shields; Martial Weapons, Simple Weapons; Disguise Kit, Forgery Kit, Shields</span></div>
    <div class="ddb-kv"><span class="ddb-label">Languages</span><span class="ddb-kv-value">Common, Gnomish</span></div>
    <div class="ddb-kv"><span class="ddb-label">Tools</span><span class="ddb-kv-value">Tinker&#x27;s Tools</span></div>
  </section>

  <section class="ddb-section">
    <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Inventory</h2>
    <div class="ddb-block">The Lady&#x27;s Embrace<br>
The Journeyman&#x27;s Answer<br>
Chain Mail<br>
Longsword<br>
Javelin x5<br>
Backpack<br>
Clothes, Fine<br>
Disguise Kit<br>
Alms Box<br>
Holy Symbol<br>
Blanket<br>
Candle x10<br>
Rations (1 day) x2<br>
Tinderbox<br>
Waterskin<br>
Block of Incense x2<br>
Censer<br>
Vestments<br>
15 gp</div>
  </section>

  <section class="ddb-section">
    <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Spellcasting</h2>
    <div class="ddb-spell-header">
      <div><span class="ddb-label">Ability</span> cha</div>
      <div><span class="ddb-label">Save DC</span> 14</div>
      <div><span class="ddb-label">Attack</span> +6</div>
    </div>
    <h3 class="ddb-subsection-title">Spell Slots</h3>
    <div class="ddb-block">1st 3/3</div>
    <h3 class="ddb-subsection-title">Spells Prepared / Known</h3>
    <div class="ddb-block">Level 1: Bless, Cure Wounds, Divine Favor, Searing Smite, Wrathful Smite</div>
  </section>

  <footer class="ddb-footer">
    <p class="ddb-sync"><span class="ddb-label">D&amp;D Beyond sync</span> 2026-07-08 12:28 UTC</p>
    <p class="ddb-disclaimer">Unofficial fan layout inspired by digital character sheet sections. Not affiliated with Wizards of the Coast or D&amp;D Beyond.</p>
  </footer>
</div>

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
A stocky gnome with weathered brown skin, a curling white mustache, and sage-green hair worn upward. One eye is natural brown; the other a glowing green orb set in the socket. Silver plate with a golden diamond badge on the breast - armour polished as if piety could be made visible.

h3. Key Items

* [[Spoon of Digging | Spoon of Digging]]
* [[Fallowhurst Lecture Hall Doorknob | Fallowhurst Lecture Hall Doorknob]]
* [[The Journeyman's Answer | The Journeyman's Answer]] — **2 charges** _(Session 11)_
* [[The Unanswered Cry | The Unanswered Cry]]
* [[Silver Guest Bracelet | Silver Guest Bracelet]]

<!-- OP_BIO -->
Presents as a pious sellsword in silver plate — holy symbols from several traditions at his belt, jokes at the ready, prayers offered to whichever god might prove useful in the moment. Claims no fixed patron.

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
h2. Player sheet (D&D Beyond)

* *Faith:* No fixed faith — happy to pray to whomever might be most useful at the time.
* *Personality:* Keeps multiple holy symbols and invokes whatever deity might help; a joke for every occasion, especially when humour is inappropriate; does not heed risk — never tell him the odds.
* *Ideals:* Independence — a free spirit; no one tells him what to do (Chaotic). Charity — steals from the wealthy to help people in need (Good).
* *Bonds:* A powerful enemy killed someone he was closest to; someday he will have revenge on all their kind. Someone he loved died because of a mistake he made — that will never happen again.
* *Flaws:* Too greedy for his own good; cannot resist a risk if money is involved.

h2. Ayr's Backstory

Thief? That was a life long ago.

Young Ayr loved his underground cities, loved his family, and enjoyed a very typical and fun gnomish childhood. It changed when his family were evicted from their little home after failing to make bank payments to **GF & Sons Trust**, and were forced to begging on the streets and to live amongst the hustle and bustle of the underground underworld.

Funnily enough, Ayr seemed quite quick to take to a new life of living day to day based on what you could find, or steal.

Jovial, quick witted, and always getting into trouble, Ayr honed his skills and developed a keen eye for reading situations, especially those where loose coin could be in an open pocket. He caught the eye of a local thieving gang, and quickly rose amongst their ranks.

From crypts to castles, manors to moats, if there were treasures to be found under protection somewhere — he was after it.

He did keep to a rule though: only take from those who have more than their "fair" share. His double life was unknown to his family; he would often make up stories about how he came by coin to keep them just above the squalor line, and always ensured a portion of his spoils went to those who needed it more than him.

Ayr's life would forever be changed when a seemingly easy job went horribly wrong.

**Baron von Goldfinger** — a noble whom he had once relieved of trinkets, coin, and *(TODO: player to specify)* — set up a fake job that led to Ayr's crew being set upon by a vicious mimic, carefully lured into what should have been an obvious farce. Ayr was the only survivor — albeit with one less eye than he started with. The rest of his crew died on the same job; he blames himself as much as Goldfinger.

Since then he has developed both an irrational hatred of mimics and of creatures that harm ordinary people going about their business, and has sworn revenge on von Goldfinger when the opportunity arises. Depending on what is closest, that is who he tends to direct his ire at.

He feels guilt because he blames himself for what happened. He feels anger because the noble class has already taken so much from everyone — but has taken everything from him, Goldfinger in particular.

He has sworn to (at) his god, his friends' god, your god, any god he could find, that from then on his life would be dedicated to two things:

# He wishes to lead the charge in exterminating mimics from the lands, and will happily take any fiend that stands in their way with them.
# Goldfinger has uncollected debts that he must pay for.

He has since (mostly) put down his tricks of deception and picked up a sword and shield (and armour he borrowed from a rich man's armoury — because why else would it be on display instead of protecting someone who needed it) and set out to fulfil his new oath.

The various gods hearing their names sworn to (at) took a bit of amusement to all this, and are for now lending this little gnome a bit of strength just to see how it all plays out.

He makes his journey to [[Sindrel | Sindrel]] on rumours that such beasts have taken residence, while being somewhat concerned that the many deity amulets he carries seem quieter than normal as of late.

*See [[:regnif-d-log | Regnif d'Log]] (GM) for Goldfinger's current identity in Sindrel. Ayr does not know d'Log is Goldfinger through Session 11.*

h2. Amulets, priest, and first smite

* **The amulets** — Ayr wears several cheap holy-symbol charms from different traditions (belt/pouch), bought to support his paladin act. On the road before [[The White Dragon Coaching Inn | the White Dragon]] they give almost nothing back — no voice, no warmth, barely a tingle when he prays.
* **The priest** — A travelling priest sold them, promising that one would *speak* to Ayr when he picked it up. Nothing has. Ayr suspects he was conned but won't hold a grudge; the purchase delayed a **letter home** he had meant to send. *(The family still receives money; they do not know what he has become.)*
* **Near Sindrel** — On the approach (26th Enean), he felt brief **heat from the amulet pouch** despite their usual silence. He chalked it up to the city's magic, not divine favour.
* **First Divine Smite** — On the **plains before [[Sindrel | Sindrel]]** the same day, he killed a cricket with a burst of light he did not understand — the first time "something answered when I meant it." **Proximity to Sindrel's magical density** likely unlocked real paladin power for the first time; the gods' amusement at his blanket oath-swearing (backstory) is the in-world cause. **Through Session 11 he does not know** this was Divine Smite or that he has paladin magic at all — only that something happened once.

h2. Road to the White Dragon

_Pre-Session 1 (20th Enean 4218)._

* On [[The Mage Road | the Mage Road]] south of [[The White Dragon Coaching Inn | the White Dragon]], still days from [[Soulwind | Soulwind]]. His **mimic-hunter cover** is holding; he hopes it lands paid work in [[Sindrel | Sindrel]].
* **Noble caravan theft** — en route he relieved a wealthy caravan of poorly secured chest contents (same rule: only those with more than their share). Coin helped fund mail adjustments at the inn.
* **Green orb** — self-doubt is new to him. He uses the mirror and the orb stares back as hard as he stares at it — a reminder of the mimic job and the crew he lost. He does not feel strong enough yet for payback on **Goldfinger**.
* Mail still ill-fitting until the White Dragon blacksmith (24th Enean); shield got cheap pewter embellishments.

h2. Crew, grudges, and Divine Sense

* **Swyfgrin** — old thief-crew partner. Ayr remembers pulling similar **tossing stunts** with him to reach treasure-room ledges (as when [[:nakoma-deathwalker-mor-got-ha | Deathwalker]] threw him up the cliff, 25 Enean). *(TODO: confirm whether Swyfgrin died on the mimic job — see Todos.)*
* **Divine Sense** — an **old traveller in plate** once taught him a trick for "sensing bad things." Ayr thought it was a joke until it worked at [[Fallowhurst College | Fallowhurst College]] (25 Enean) and likely saved the party. He does not frame it as paladin magic — just a road lesson that paid off.
* **Anathemist grudge** — the zealot who killed [[:lacerta-kirrahe | Captain Kirrahe]] with the thunder-weapon (25 Enean ambush) is on Ayr's personal list. He does not know their name.
* **"Wanted"** — after the [[Anathemists | Anathemist]] patrol encounter leaving [[Fallowhurst Outpost | the Outpost]] (26 Enean), Ayr believes the party is **wanted**. He is fine with that if it gets him closer to their leader.

h2. Roleplaying Notes

h3. What do they most regret leaving behind?

He really liked a good card game, and living this new life isn't nearly as fun as what he had before. He misses his old "family" and bonds, and wishes he could have that once again. Since leaving, he keeps finding ways to send money home, but his family doesn't know what has become of him, nor really what has become of them.

h3. What rumour(s) might somebody else have heard about your character?

* The whole bit about being a thief in a previous life and how he came to lose his eye and his entire crew while taking on a job, versus just being a mislaid adventurer exploring for fun.
* His past dark life stands to tarnish his shiny new armour, and bring up some very harsh self truths should this become well known.
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
