---
op_id: 9c9f7ee7fc5d449daad869fb0c972bd9
op_slug: barnabus
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Barnabus
title: Barnabus
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/barnabus
op_created_at: '2026-02-13T22:53:54Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-01T11:03:32Z'
op_gm_only: true
is_player_character: false
tags:
- he/him
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
You see a grey-haired man with a scarred cheek, dressed in fancy foreign clothes that mark him as wealthy rather than local. He carries himself like someone accustomed to being obeyed.

<!-- OP_BIO -->


<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
h2. Role in the Anathemist Plot

Barnabus is the **de-facto coordinator and cell lead** for the [[Anathemists | Anathemist]] infiltration of [[Sindrel | Sindrel]]. He is embedded in [[:regnif-d-log | Regnif d'Log]]'s household, outwardly serving as d'Log's butler.

[[:georges-de-selve | Georges de Selve]] and [[:jean-de-dinteville | Jean de Dinteville]] are **senior lieutenants** - merchant cover for logistics, strike actions, and exit. [[:arouraios | Arouraios]] reports to Barnabus as route-finder and mapper. [[:regnif-d-log | d'Log]] is the patsy, not the leader.

Barnabus acts as the cell's fixer, handler, and domestic infiltrator. He exploits the invisible authority of service: appointments, letters, errands, household accounts, livery contacts, deliveries, tradespeople, and servants' gossip. He does not need to force access when he can arrange it as part of somebody else's routine.

Supposedly acting as [[:regnif-d-log | Regnif d'Log]]'s agent, Barnabus made a deal with [[:kelferria-the-smith | Kelferria]] of [[House Mabon | House Mabon]] for a large order of enchanted armour. He maked a large down payment and promised much more, but the samples were the true objective. The armour served two purposes: protection within the [[Quarantine Zone | Quarantine Zone]], allowing the cell to use The [[Quarantine Zone | Sacrum]] as a staging ground, and disguise. Because Kelferria supplies [[House Oestra | House Oestra]], the chest-plates can pass as Oestra armour at a distance once crudely decorated with the Oestra crest.

In the sabotage campaign before the [[Ditchquer | Ditchquer]] closing ceremony, Barnabus used servant networks to learn which households, [[Factor | Factors]], and House officials are vulnerable to distraction or theft. He helped identify [[:nielsenn | Nielsenn]] as a useful locksmith and helped arrange the circumstances that allow him to be kidnapped and his death staged. He also hid suspicious purchases inside d'Log's household accounts, including unusually high charcoal use at the lodgings.

During the [[Ditchquer | Ditchquer]] closing ceremony, Barnabus stole [[:silas-oestra | Silas Oestra]]'s [[Silas Oestra's Chamber Key | chamber key]] and passes it to  [[:arouraios | Arouraios]], who was disguised as a coachman. A brief exchange between two servants passed beneath the notice of anyone in the room. This theft enabled [[:georges-de-selve | Georges de Selve]], [[:jean-de-dinteville | Jean de Dinteville]], and [[:nielsenn | Nielsenn]] to access [[:silas-oestra | Silas Oestra]]'s rooms.

After the [[Ditchquer | Ditchquer]] operation, Barnabus remained in [[Sindrel | Sindrel]] as part of d'Log's retinue, permitted to stay until his master's business is concluded. This makes him the spy cell's remaining embedded agent after Georges and Jean depart.

h3. Investigative footprint

Evidence pointing to Barnabus may include household account irregularities, messages sent in d'Log's name, servant testimony, the Kelferria armour order, charcoal purchases, unexplained knowledge of [[:silas-oestra | Silas Oestra]]'s movements, and any clue showing that d'Log's authority was used without d'Log's understanding.
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
