---
op_id: 18adc010e63d46b394c8b198b81b1370
op_slug: callem-marr
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Callem Marr
title: Callem Marr
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/callem-marr
op_created_at: '2026-07-05T13:06:35Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-05T13:12:14Z'
op_gm_only: true
is_player_character: false
tags:
- he/him
- Black Cats
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
A broad-shouldered dwarven man in late middle age, his scalp shaved to stubble and his jaw set in a permanent line between patience and suspicion. He wears a stained leather apron over a grey linen shirt with the sleeves rolled to the elbows, dark trousers, and soft-soled boots — the practical dress of a [[The Wallarch District | Wallarch]] barkeep who expects to be elbow-deep in work and occasionally in trouble. His hands never quite stop moving: wiping a glass, counting change, resting near a club hook beneath the bar. He speaks in short, flat sentences and does not ask your business unless you have become his problem.

<!-- OP_BIO -->
Public face of [[The Cutthroat's Repose | The Cutthroat's Repose]] in [[The Wallarch District | Wallarch]].

* *31st of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Served the Wonch in the Repose public room and gave [[:ayr | Ayr]] very little about [[:chuggaz | Chuggaz]] beyond ale strong enough to win the exchange on its own.[1]

<hr>
fn1. [[Session 12: No Questions, Some Answers | Session 12: No Questions, Some Answers]]

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
h2. Prep

* **Not a Black Cat** — paid by [[:sable-silvestre | Sable Silvestre]] (through Vault intermediaries) to keep the public room running and the kitchen door unremarkable. [[:garric-brunt | Garric Brunt]] mans the street door and peephole. Knows the back-room password ritual; will not say *Swordfish* aloud for a patron.
* **Back-room gate:** a coin left on the counter, or the password spoken quietly at the bar, earns a jerk of the head toward the kitchen. He may demand both if the room is loud or if [[The Adventurers | the Wonch]] arrive with obvious authority.
* **Recognition:** knows the party by reputation — Emerich's talk, Deathwalker's cards, Hexine cover. Default **watchful neutrality**; +2 effective DC on Deception from strangers. Will not start a fight unless the premises or his contract are threatened.
* **Gillette:** tolerates [[:gillette-quill | Gillette Quill]] as cheap floor labour; noticed Gillette bolt for the kitchen when the Wonch entered — will not cover for him under direct questioning, but will not volunteer the connection either.

h2. Stat block

<p><em>Not Hexine-tier.</em> Session 12 is atmosphere and gating — combat only if the party escalate in the public room.</p>

<div class="stat-block">
<h3>Callem Marr</h3>
<p><em>Medium humanoid (dwarf), neutral</em></p>
<p><strong>Armor Class</strong> 13 (leather apron, brawler's reflexes)<br>
<strong>Hit Points</strong> 22 (4d8 + 4)<br>
<strong>Speed</strong> 30 ft.<br>
<strong>Initiative</strong> +1</p>
<hr>
<table>
    <tr><th>STR</th><th>DEX</th><th>CON</th><th>INT</th><th>WIS</th><th>CHA</th></tr>
    <tr><td>14 (+2)</td><td>12 (+1)</td><td>13 (+1)</td><td>11 (+0)</td><td>14 (+2)</td><td>10 (+0)</td></tr>
</table>
<hr>
<p><strong>Skills</strong> Insight +4, Intimidation +2, Perception +4<br>
<strong>Senses</strong> passive Perception 14<br>
<strong>Languages</strong> Common<br>
<strong>Challenge</strong> 1/2 (100 XP)<br>
<strong>Proficiency Bonus</strong> +2</p>
<hr>
<p><strong>Professional Neutral.</strong> Callem has advantage on Charisma checks to de-escalate tavern violence and on Wisdom (Insight) checks to spot concealed weapons in his room.</p>
<hr>
<h4>Actions</h4>
<p><strong>Club.</strong> <em>Melee Weapon Attack:</em> +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. <em>Hit:</em> 5 (1d6 + 2) bludgeoning damage.</p>
<p><strong>Call the Room.</strong> Callem barks for order. Each hostile creature of his choice within 30 ft. that can hear him must succeed on a DC 12 Wisdom saving throw or have disadvantage on the next attack roll it makes before the end of its next turn.</p>
</div>
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
