---
op_id: 10efd9f5944c41bcab9fde0dab21ccc7
op_slug: carlos-winterborn
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Carlos Winterborn
title: Carlos Winterborn
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/carlos-winterborn
op_created_at: '2026-06-28T00:09:56Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-06-29T14:03:04Z'
op_gm_only: true
is_player_character: false
tags:
- Deceased
- he/him
- Human
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
Noble named on a preserved teaching cadaver at [[Fallowhurst College | Fallowhurst College]].

<!-- OP_BIO -->
* *25th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Discovered by the Wonch while exploring Fallowhurst - Name given on a pristine teaching cadaver in the [[Fallowhurst College | Fallowhurst College]] museum: _Subject 1: Carlos Winterborn. 25 M. Occupation: Noble. Affliction: Cervical Fracture. Outcome: Partial Success._.[1]

<div class="op-footnotes">

fn1. [[Session 2: Fallowhurst | Session 2: Fallowhurst]]

</div>


<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
First successful subject of [[:embren-oestra | Embren Oestra]]'s binding work at [[Fallowhurst College | Fallowhurst College]]. "Partial Success" marks the creation of Embren - Winterborn's identity overwritten, not merely repaired. Pre-magic noble; the cervical fracture was likely from riding or a carriage accident.

Embren's experiments began with patients who might plausibly "benefit" from radical intervention; later subjects were whoever was available. See [[Fallowhurst College | Fallowhurst College]] (Museum, room C).
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
