---
op_id: d60c6f3ca5b240aabbf1ae1063a7ba57
op_slug: cedric
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Cedric
title: Cedric
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/cedric
op_created_at: '2026-06-01T16:48:14Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-04T11:18:37Z'
op_gm_only: false
is_player_character: false
tags:
- House Lithra
- Adjutant
- he/him
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
You see a human man with light brown skin and a lean, precise build, his black hair combed flat and his face clean-shaven. He is turned out as a [[House Lithra | Lithra]] household adjutant: charcoal tailcoat and silver-grey waistcoat, white gloves, and a discreet silver throat-pin — the monochrome palette and framed throat of Lithra dress, adapted to butler's livery. He presents as composed and unflappable — a man who has seen worse than burned curtains and intends to keep the townhouse running regardless. He speaks in formal, measured phrases, dry and faintly reproachful when guests threaten the upholstery.

<!-- OP_BIO -->
[[Adjutant | Adjutant]] of [[House Lithra | House Lithra]]; butler of [[Radwasp House | Radwasp House]], the [[Hexine Circle | Hexine Circle]] townhouse in upper [[Sindrel | Sindrel]].

* *30th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*[1]
** Received [[The Adventurers | the Wonch]] after [[:commander-locke | Prefect Locke]] directed them to Radwasp House.
* *31st of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*[2]
** Summoned before dawn. [[:nakoma-deathwalker-mor-got-ha | Deathwalker]]'s knock sent [[:wilrin-racenglade | Wilrin]]'s door flying; Wilrin's firebolt and Deathwalker's Chill Touch left door and curtains badly singed — Cedric was extremely consternated.
** Built a like-for-like miniature of the townhouse for [[:razorbeak | the Chicken]].
<hr>
fn1. [[Session 9: Downtime 2 | Session 9: Downtime 2]]

fn2. [[Session 11: Gunpowder, Treason, and Plot | Session 11: Gunpowder, Treason, and Plot]]

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
h2. True role

Cedric is actually a [[Factor | Factor]] — his typical assignment is to spy on visiting dignitaries for [[House Lithra | House Lithra]]. The butler cover at Radwasp House lets him observe the Wonch without appearing to be one of Halan's overt agents.

h2. Session 12

* May announce an Oestra summons at [[Radwasp House | Radwasp House]] (alternative to the Leageur scene). Delivers the message in perfect butler mode — dry, reproachful if the party have singed anything else overnight. Pure roleplay; no mechanical effect.
* Stays in cover unless the Wonch attack him or expose his Factor role; then Lithra training surfaces.

h2. Stat block

<p><em>Not Hexine-tier.</em> Undercover Lithra [[Factor | Factor]] (CR 4) — professional spy, not a seated [[Hexine Circle | Hexine Circle]] delegate like [[:emissary-halan | Halan]]. Session 12 default is ally-adjacent; combat means cover broken at [[Radwasp House | Radwasp House]].</p>

<div class="stat-block">
<h3>Cedric</h3>
<p><em>Medium humanoid (human), lawful neutral</em></p>
<p><strong>Armor Class</strong> 15 (armoured cloth sewn into livery)<br>
<strong>Hit Points</strong> 52 (8d8 + 16)<br>
<strong>Speed</strong> 30 ft.<br>
<strong>Initiative</strong> +3</p>
<hr>
<table>
    <tr><th>STR</th><th>DEX</th><th>CON</th><th>INT</th><th>WIS</th><th>CHA</th></tr>
    <tr><td>11 (+0)</td><td>16 (+3)</td><td>14 (+2)</td><td>14 (+2)</td><td>14 (+2)</td><td>15 (+2)</td></tr>
</table>
<hr>
<p><strong>Saving Throws</strong> Dex +5, Wis +4<br>
<strong>Skills</strong> Deception +6, Insight +6, Perception +6, Stealth +7<br>
<strong>Senses</strong> passive Perception 16<br>
<strong>Languages</strong> Common<br>
<strong>Challenge</strong> 4 (1,100 XP)<br>
<strong>Proficiency Bonus</strong> +2</p>
<hr>
<p><strong>Butler's Cover.</strong> Until Cedric attacks or casts a spell, he has advantage on Charisma (Deception) checks to pass as household staff and on Wisdom saves against intimidation.</p>
<p><strong>Cunning Action.</strong> On each of his turns, Cedric can take the Dash, Disengage, or Hide action as a bonus action.</p>
<p><strong>Radwasp Protocol.</strong> Cedric has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks inside [[Radwasp House | Radwasp House]].</p>
<p><strong>Sneak Attack (1/Turn).</strong> Cedric deals an extra 7 (2d6) damage when he hits with a weapon attack and has advantage on the attack roll, or when the target is within 5 feet of an ally that isn't incapacitated and Cedric doesn't have disadvantage on the attack roll.</p>
<hr>
<h4>Spellcasting (Illusion)</h4>
<p>Cedric is a 7th-level spellcaster. His spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 14, +6 to hit with spell attacks). Lithra training — misdirection, disguise, and single-target phantasms, not open battle magic.</p>
<p><strong>Cantrips (at will):</strong> <em>minor illusion</em></p>
<p><strong>1st level (4 slots):</strong> <em>disguise self</em>, <em>silent image</em></p>
<p><strong>2nd level (2 slots):</strong> <em>invisibility</em>, <em>phantasmal force</em></p>
<hr>
<h4>Actions</h4>
<p><strong>Multiattack.</strong> Cedric makes two rapier attacks, or one rapier attack and casts a cantrip or spell of 1st level or lower.</p>
<p><strong>Rapier.</strong> <em>Melee Weapon Attack:</em> +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. <em>Hit:</em> 7 (1d8 + 3) piercing damage.</p>
<p><strong>Hand Crossbow.</strong> <em>Ranged Weapon Attack:</em> +5 to hit, range 30/120 ft., one target. <em>Hit:</em> 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage.</p>
</div>

h3. Spell descriptions

p. *Minor illusion* (cantrip). Cedric creates a sound or image of an object within 30 feet for 1 minute (see PHB).

p. *Disguise self* (1st level). Cedric alters his appearance for 1 hour (see PHB).

p. *Silent image* (1st level, concentration, up to 10 minutes). Cedric creates the image of an object, creature, or force within 60 feet, no larger than a 15-foot cube (see PHB).

p. *Invisibility* (2nd level, concentration, up to 1 hour). Cedric becomes invisible until the spell ends (see PHB).

p. *Phantasmal force* (2nd level, concentration, up to 1 minute). One creature Cedric can see within 60 feet must succeed on a DC 14 Intelligence saving throw or perceive an illusory hazard. The target takes 3d6 psychic damage each round on Cedric's turn; the target repeats the save at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on a success.
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
