---
op_id: ad30951b97324a5b897db22c9877caab
op_slug: chuggaz
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Chugan "Chuggaz" Velm
title: Chugan "Chuggaz" Velm
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/chuggaz
op_created_at: '2026-06-25T19:54:55Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-06-29T14:03:07Z'
op_gm_only: false
is_player_character: false
tags:
- Adjutant
- House Grimbolg
- he/him
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
You see a stocky dragonborn man with bronze scales and a broad-shouldered, work-hardened build, his horned head and dorsal frill catching the light. He wears [[The Fulcrum | Fulcrum]] service livery: the same pale marble-grey tunic and apron as the rest of the tower staff, black trousers, soft shoes, and the eight-pointed star at the collar. He presents as watchful and streetwise — friendly enough on the surface, always measuring who is asking and why. He answers in a low, careful voice, giving no more detail than the question seems to deserve.

<!-- OP_BIO -->
[[Adjutant | Adjutant]] on [[The Fulcrum | Fulcrum]] staff ([[House Grimbolg | House Grimbolg]] affiliation).

According to [[:nort | Nort]], he is rumoured to be connected to [[The Black Cats | the Black Cats]].

*31st of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*

* On duty at [[The Fulcrum | The Fulcrum]] when [[The Adventurers | the Wonch]] questioned staff about the bombing.

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
h2. Black Cats link

**[[The Black Cats | Black Cats]] — Gild** (true link, not rumour). Fences [[The Fulcrum | Fulcrum]] shift rosters, servant-route patterns, and ceremony-night staffing to **Counters** / **Vault**. Nort's gossip is accurate. Vault protects him while he is useful; he knows fragments of who paid for extended shifts on bombing night but not the wider plot.

Unrelated to **City Cats** (actual felines).

h2. Session 12

* Evasive under accusation — roster fraud and cash-for-shift, not the bombing plot. See `notes/session-12-plan.md` for interview beats and clue table.
* Will not name Black Cats or Vault unless broken, bought off, or the party earns trust via the Cats path.
* Under hard pressure → Cutthroat's Repose, impound cart, or a Counter watching — not a confession that he helped bomb the Fulcrum.

h2. Stat block

<p><em>Not Hexine-tier.</em> Session 12 is an interview and misdirection beat — he looks like the spy Nans flagged, but the thread is syndicate corruption. Combat baseline: <strong>Black Cat Gild</strong> ([[The Black Cats | the-black-cats]] wiki); traits below are Chuggaz-specific.</p>

<div class="stat-block">
<h3>Chugan "Chuggaz" Velm</h3>
<p><em>Medium humanoid (dragonborn), neutral</em></p>
<p><strong>Armor Class</strong> 15 (studded leather under livery)<br>
<strong>Hit Points</strong> 32 (5d8 + 10)<br>
<strong>Speed</strong> 30 ft.<br>
<strong>Initiative</strong> +3</p>
<hr>
<table>
    <tr><th>STR</th><th>DEX</th><th>CON</th><th>INT</th><th>WIS</th><th>CHA</th></tr>
    <tr><td>10 (+0)</td><td>16 (+3)</td><td>14 (+2)</td><td>13 (+1)</td><td>12 (+1)</td><td>15 (+2)</td></tr>
</table>
<hr>
<p><strong>Skills</strong> Arcana +3, Deception +4, Persuasion +4<br>
<strong>Damage Resistance</strong> lightning<br>
<strong>Senses</strong> passive Perception 11<br>
<strong>Languages</strong> Common, Draconic<br>
<strong>Challenge</strong> 2 (450 XP)<br>
<strong>Proficiency Bonus</strong> +2</p>
<hr>
<p><strong>Knows When to Run (1/Day).</strong> When Chuggaz is reduced to half his hit points or fewer, he can take the Dash action as a bonus action. Opportunity attacks provoked by this movement are made with disadvantage.</p>
<hr>
<h4>Spellcasting</h4>
<p>Chuggaz's spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 12, +4 to hit with spell attacks). He has three 2nd-level spell slots and knows the following spells:</p>
<p><em>1st level (at will):</em> <em>mage hand</em><br>
<em>2nd level (3 slots):</em> <em>hold person</em>, <em>misty step</em>, <em>scorching ray</em></p>
<hr>
<h4>Actions</h4>
<p><strong>Multiattack.</strong> Chuggaz makes two rapier attacks, or one rapier attack and casts <em>scorching ray</em>.</p>
<p><strong>Rapier.</strong> <em>Melee Weapon Attack:</em> +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. <em>Hit:</em> 7 (1d8 + 3) piercing damage.</p>
<p><strong>Lightning Breath (Recharge 5–6).</strong> Chuggaz exhales lightning in a 15-foot line that is 5 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw, taking 9 (2d8) lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. He uses this only when cornered — not in the middle of the Fulcrum lobby if he can help it.</p>
<p><strong>Cut a Deal.</strong> Chuggaz offers a fragment of truth (see Session 12 clue table in `notes/session-12-plan.md`) in exchange for being left alone, paid, or not handed to [[House Meness | Meness]]. A character who succeeds on a DC 14 Wisdom (Insight) check knows he is still holding back the words "Black Cats" and "Vault."</p>
<hr>
<h4>Reactions</h4>
<p><strong>Evasive Answer.</strong> When Chuggaz is questioned by a creature he can hear, he can give an evasive reply. The questioner must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom (Insight) check to tell he is lying by omission; on a failure, Chuggaz's deflection seems plausible until corroborated (e.g. by [[:nans | Nans]]'s paperwork or [[:nort | Nort]]'s coachman sighting).</p>
</div>
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
