---
op_id: 07d0ce67cf8f4bae89c0522fe2d92556
op_slug: corporal-brokkr-stegg
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Corporal Brokkr Stegg
title: Corporal Brokkr Stegg
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/corporal-brokkr-stegg
op_created_at: '2026-06-25T17:12:39Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-04T11:13:08Z'
op_gm_only: false
is_player_character: false
tags:
- House Meness
- he/him
- Adjutant
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
You see a weary dwarf man with fair, ruddy skin and a stocky build, his russet beard braided tight and his scalp mostly bare beneath a sweat-darkened cap. He wears a [[House Meness | Meness]] watch-coat — white and high-collared, now powder-stained at the cuffs — over charcoal trousers and black boots, a black belt and truncheon at his hip marking him as member of the watch. He presents as a tired professional — competent, easily exasperated, protective of his evidence. He speaks in blunt, technical bursts, sighing often, as though he has already explained all of this to someone stupider.

<!-- OP_BIO -->
[[Adjutant | Adjutant]] of [[House Meness | House Meness]]; explosives specialist assigned to the damaged northwest foundation beneath [[The Fulcrum | The Fulcrum]].

* *31st of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Showed [[The Adventurers | the Wonch]] charred device fragments and confirmed [[:ayr | Ayr]]'s clockwork-and-gunpowder theory after a live spark test.
** Ordered the party to leave after [[:wilrin-racenglade | Wilrin]]'s wild magic scorched evidence and bystanders; provided tunnel layouts when [[:nakoma-deathwalker-mor-got-ha | Deathwalker]] invoked their Hexine authority.

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
h2. Prep

* Genuinely baffled by mundane bombs in a magical city — useful voice for underscoring how alien the plot feels to locals.
* Will cooperate when Hexine authority is explicit; otherwise protective of his evidence chain.
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
