---
op_id: 61559d8f1f1f4ae9801473df49c08f04
op_slug: embren-oestra
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: The Plague Doctor
title: The Plague Doctor
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/embren-oestra
op_created_at: '2025-11-26T18:31:11Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-04T11:21:18Z'
op_gm_only: false
is_player_character: false
tags:
- he/him
avatar_url: https://db4sgowjqfwig.cloudfront.net/images/7441221/embren.jpg
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
You see a tall, gaunt figure of indeterminate ancestry beneath a wide-brimmed hat and a hooked-beak plague mask — waxed black robes layered over leather, long gloves, and a walking cane. They walk slowly but with purpose. They speak in a breathless rasp, as though each sentence cost more air than they possess.

<!-- OP_BIO -->
*25th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Encountered in [[Fallowhurst | Fallowhurst]] village in plague-doctor garb; examined [[:nakoma-deathwalker-mor-got-ha | Deathwalker]]'s arrow wounds and directed the party toward the estate, then entered the manor without further conversation.

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->

h2. True identity

Embren Oestra — [[House Oestra | House Oestra]] scion, undead, masked cover.


h2. Stat block

<div class="stat-block">
<h3>Embren Oestra</h3>
<p><em>Medium undead, lawful evil</em></p>
<p><strong>Armor Class</strong> 12<br>
<strong>Hit Points</strong> 22 (5d8)<br>
<strong>Speed</strong> 30 ft.<br>
<strong>Initiative</strong> +2</p>
<hr>
<table>
    <tr><th>STR</th><th>DEX</th><th>CON</th><th>INT</th><th>WIS</th><th>CHA</th></tr>
    <tr><td>13 (+1)</td><td>15 (+2)</td><td>10 (+0)</td><td>7 (-2)</td><td>6 (-2)</td><td>15 (+2)</td></tr>
</table>
<hr>
<p><strong>Damage Immunities</strong> Poison<br>
<strong>Condition Immunities</strong> Charmed, Exhaustion, Poisoned<br>
<strong>Senses</strong> Darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10<br>
<strong>Languages</strong> Common<br>
<strong>Challenge</strong> 1 (200 XP)<br>
<strong>Proficiency Bonus</strong> +2</p>
<hr>
<h4>Actions</h4>
<p><strong>Cane.</strong> <em>Melee Weapon Attack:</em> +2 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. <em>Hit:</em> 9 (2d6 + 2) bludgeoning damage.</p>
<p><strong>Scalpel.</strong> <em>Melee Weapon Attack:</em> +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. <em>Hit:</em> 7 (2d4 + 2) slashing damage. If the target is a creature other than an elf or undead, it must succeed on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.</p>
</div>
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
