---
op_id: a47b6e3ea9444853a1dd4ee5452f4b72
op_slug: emerich-surefoot
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Emerich Surefoot
title: Emerich Surefoot
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/emerich-surefoot
op_created_at: '2026-03-12T10:37:19Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-04T21:51:39Z'
op_gm_only: false
is_player_character: false
tags:
- Black Cats
- he/him
- Half-elf
avatar_url: https://db4sgowjqfwig.cloudfront.net/images/7492296/emerich.jpg
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
You see a half-elf man with sun-browned skin and a wiry, runner's build, his long black hair worn greasy and unkempt, his chin perpetually stubbled. He dresses like [[The Wallarch District | Wallarch]] trouble — scuffed leather jerkin, dark trousers, soft boots, no house colours — the sort of clothes chosen for alleys rather than salons. He presents as shifty and overconfident by turns, a low-tier enforcer trying to look harder than he is. He speaks in rushed half-truths, backtracking when caught, voice climbing when cornered.

<!-- OP_BIO -->
Low-level enforcer for [[The Black Cats | The Black Cats]].

* *28th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*[1]
** Gambled with [[:nakoma-deathwalker-mor-got-ha | Deathwalker]] in a Wallarch dive; lost and revealed lore linking the [[Osteomantic Archives | Osteomantic Archives]] to the old [[The Eighth House | necromantic House]] and a route toward the [[Quarantine Zone | quarantine zone]].
* *29th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*[2]
** Caught running near the [[Osteomantic Archives | Osteomantic Archives]] at noon; after pathetic dissembling, revealed his Black Cats affiliation and that his contact uses the back room of [[The Cutthroat's Repose | The Cutthroat's Repose]] (password: "Swordfish"). [[The Adventurers | The Wonch]] let him go.

<div class="op-footnotes">

fn1. [[Session 4: Sindrel! | Session 4: Sindrel!]]

fn2. [[Session 6: Wallarch | Session 6: Wallarch]]

</div>

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
h2. Prep

* **Scratches**-tier muscle — runs errands and lean-on work, not leadership. Knows the Repose password route (contact is [[:sable-silvestre | Sable Silvestre]], **Tally** relay for Vault); will fold fast if cornered again.
* Same cash-in-plain-wraps economy as [[:chuggaz | Chuggaz]]'s Latch payroll; does not know who funded the Fulcrum roster buys.

h2. Stat block

<div class="stat-block">
<h3>Emerich Surefoot</h3>
<p><em>Medium humanoid (half-elf), neutral</em></p>
<p><strong>Armor Class</strong> 13 (leather armour)<br>
<strong>Hit Points</strong> 18 (4d8)<br>
<strong>Speed</strong> 30 ft.<br>
<strong>Initiative</strong> +3</p>
<hr>
<table>
    <tr><th>STR</th><th>DEX</th><th>CON</th><th>INT</th><th>WIS</th><th>CHA</th></tr>
    <tr><td>10 (+0)</td><td>16 (+3)</td><td>10 (+0)</td><td>11 (+0)</td><td>10 (+0)</td><td>12 (+1)</td></tr>
</table>
<hr>
<p><strong>Skills</strong> Deception +3, Sleight of Hand +5, Stealth +5<br>
<strong>Senses</strong> passive Perception 10<br>
<strong>Languages</strong> Common, Elvish<br>
<strong>Challenge</strong> 1 (200 XP)<br>
<strong>Proficiency Bonus</strong> +2</p>
<hr>
<p><strong>Runner.</strong> Emerich can take the Disengage action as a bonus action on each of his turns.</p>
<p><strong>Knows When to Run (1/Day).</strong> When Emerich is reduced to half his hit points or fewer, he can take the Dash action as a bonus action. Opportunity attacks provoked by this movement are made with disadvantage.</p>
<p><strong>Grovel.</strong> When Emerich is reduced to 9 hit points or fewer, he can use his action to surrender and plead for his life. A character who succeeds on a DC 13 Wisdom (Insight) check can tell he is sincere — and that he knows more than he has said if bought with safety.</p>
<hr>
<h4>Actions</h4>
<p><strong>Shortsword.</strong> <em>Melee Weapon Attack:</em> +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. <em>Hit:</em> 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage.</p>
<p><strong>Dagger.</strong> <em>Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack:</em> +5 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. <em>Hit:</em> 5 (1d4 + 3) piercing damage.</p>
</div>
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
