---
op_id: 72c6d96ea30544f5b06f749d4aa2b5b2
op_slug: farseer-sybera-goela
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Farseer Goela
title: Farseer Goela
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/farseer-sybera-goela
op_created_at: '2025-12-22T16:33:48Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-01T21:22:21Z'
op_gm_only: true
is_player_character: false
tags:
- Lord of Sindrel
- House Goela
- she/her
- Elf
avatar_url: https://db4sgowjqfwig.cloudfront.net/images/7441129/pythia.jpg
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
You see three figures of roughly human height - a little short for elves - in heavy hooded purple robes and eyeless bronze masks. They stand together as though one person had been copied twice and the copies forgot to disagree.

h3. Key Items

* [[Mask of Foreknowledge | Mask of Foreknowledge]]

When they move it is with a strange synchronicity, perhaps to be expected from people who can see their companions actions before they happen.

<!-- OP_BIO -->


<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
h2. Early Life

Sybera Goela was one of seven sisters born to members of the [[Soulwind | Soulwind]] intelligencia. She spent much of her life feeling trapped by the future - a future comprised of the expectations of her parents and the need to live up to the accomplishments of her sisters. This motivated her academically, leading her to join the [[The Soulwind Institute | Soulwind Institute]] and ultimately rise to be one of the most powerful diviners.

h2. The Founding of [[Sindrel | Sindrel]]

Sybera Goela was nicknamed "the oracle of coffee" by the rest of the circle for her twin passions of divination and caffeinated beverages.

The [[Sindrel | Sindrel]] project presented an opportunity to take control of her future. Divining the future of entire other worlds was a new and exciting challenge, while the chance at immortality offered her the opportunity to cease worrying about her own future - after all, she would have infinite time to do anything she wanted.

h2. Lord of [[Sindrel | Sindrel]]

After centuries of growing her power, Sybera can no longer differentiate past, present, or future. [[House Goela | House Goela]] instituted the triumvirate not, as they claim, as a way to protect the Farseer, but as a way to prevent anyone from outside their house from speaking with her directly and thereby learning of her affliction. The other two seers are powerful diviners in their own right, and skilled at both taking point on social interactions and interpreting the apparently nonsensical ramblings of their charge.

h2. Depictions

In paintings and statues of the founders, Sybera Goela is depicted as a female figure in a long hooded robe and eyeless mask.
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
