---
op_id: c725789526cf4344afa123ca83d9e4b7
op_slug: first-of-mabon
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: First of Mabon
title: First of Mabon
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/first-of-mabon
op_created_at: '2026-01-02T20:57:23Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-01T11:03:42Z'
op_gm_only: true
is_player_character: false
tags:
- Lord of Sindrel
- House Mabon
- any/all
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
You see a woman who might be human or tiefling - dark hair, small horns easy to miss, an ornate star-amulet at her throat. Her face is calm, but sharp eyes peer into everything around her as if mentally dissecting its operation.

h3. Key Items

* [[The Amulet of Stars | The Amulet of Stars]]

<!-- OP_BIO -->


<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
First of Mabon is the ancient head of [[House Mabon | House Mabon]] and one of the surviving [[The Octarion Circle | founders of Sindrel]]. Their symbolic item is [[The Amulet of Stars | The Amulet of Stars]].

Unlike the other [[The Octarion Circle | founders]], First did not eat the [[Peaches of Immortality | peaches of immortality]]. Instead, they attempted to reproduce the peaches' effects through enchantment. The result was not bodily immortality — vessels age and die as any mortal flesh would — but preservation of First's soul within the amulet while the original body decayed long ago.

First continues by possessing the bodies of those who wear the amulet. These vessels are descendants, heirs, or specially prepared successors, allowing [[House Mabon | House Mabon]] to preserve continuity of rule while concealing the full horror of that continuity.

To outsiders, First of Mabon may appear serene, remote, ceremonial, or strangely timeless. The truth is more unsettling: the head of the House is no longer a single body, but a lineage hollowed out by an enchanted relic. The Amulet of Stars is both crown and prison. It preserves First, but only by reducing personhood to possession, inheritance, and use.

The current body being worn by First is that of a female human-tiefling halfbreed with dark hair.

h2. Depiction

In paintings and statues of the founders, First is depicted as a Tiefling with pale blue skin and horns adorned with silver filigree, dressed in a swashbuckling style: high trousers and a loose shirt open enough to reveal the ornate amulet at their chest.They are languid, exuding a rakish confidence.
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
