---
op_id: 298ff1b7fdc04f039d4ffff29710204a
op_slug: general-alicia-meness
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: General Alicia Meness
title: General Alicia Meness
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/general-alicia-meness
op_created_at: '2025-12-22T23:47:34Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-01T11:03:43Z'
op_gm_only: true
is_player_character: false
tags:
- Lord of Sindrel
- House Meness
- she/her
avatar_url: https://db4sgowjqfwig.cloudfront.net/images/7457686/meness.jpg
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
General Meness is a compact dwarven woman with steel-grey hair. She wears the crisp, white uniform of the Sindrellian Guard, entirely without ornamentation save that in the place of the normal rank bars at the shoulders she bears the crest of her house. The implication is clear - symbolically, the general _is_ House Meness.

She wears no armour, but keen eyes catch the spider thead tracery of magical shimmer across her skin. She is the head of the house of protection magic, and clearly has more faith in her art than in steel and chain.

h3. Key Items

* [[Celæs | Celæs]]
* [[Swordbreaker | Swordbreaker]]

<!-- OP_BIO -->


<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
General Alicia Meness is the ancient head of [[House Meness | House Meness]] and one of the surviving [[The Octarion Circle | founders of Sindrel]]. Her symbolic item is the shield [[Celæs | Celæs]] , and the colour of her House is white.

Alicia's abjurative magic has become almost perfectly adaptive. It learns from every harm, every threat, every force brought against her, and alters itself to ensure that such a thing can never hurt her in the same way again.

The tragedy is that her protection never truly recedes. Each defence remains. Each adaptation becomes another layer between Alicia and the world. She can no longer feel touch or heat. She can no longer hear. The world reaches her only through those channels her protections have not yet sealed away. She fears that if she were ever attacked by light, her magic would adapt again and blind her permanently.

h2. The Founder’s Burden

[[House Meness | House Meness]] prizes courage, defence, duty, and the protection of others. Alicia has become the perfect expression of that ideal and its prisoner. Nothing can reach her. That includes comfort, warmth, ordinary sensation, and perhaps eventually all companionship.
Her shield has not failed. It has succeeded too completely.

h2. Depictions

In paintings and statues of the founders, Alicia Meness is shown as a female dwarf in heavy plate armour. She carries a tower shield almost taller than she is, and [[Swordbreaker | a shortsword with swordbreaker teeth]]. Her hair is steel grey and pulled back into a sensible ponytail. She is stoic and solid.

h2. Current Day

She keeps [[Celæs | Celæs]] and [[Swordbreaker | Swordbreaker]] — the shield and sword of her adventuring days — displayed on the wall behind her office desk.
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
