---
op_id: b98a65653b164125a107c0b7e65305a6
op_slug: georges-de-selve
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Merchant 1
title: Merchant 1
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/georges-de-selve
op_created_at: '2026-02-01T16:45:57Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-04T11:23:13Z'
op_gm_only: false
is_player_character: false
tags:
- he/him
avatar_url: https://db4sgowjqfwig.cloudfront.net/images/7469571/960px-Georges_de_Selve.jpg
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
De Selve is a broad-shouldered human man with olive skin and a heavy, well-fed build, his dark hair receding and his beard close-cropped. He wears prosperous merchant's dress from abroad — a fur-lined mantle over a belted coat, fine wool in muted reds and browns, travel-stained at the hems — the look of a trader who loads his own carts. He presents as affable and physically capable, someone who smiles easily and stands his ground. He speaks in a low, genial rumble, favouring plain commercial language over courtly flourish.

<!-- OP_BIO -->
* *24th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Travelled with [[The Adventurers | the Wonch]] in [[Sindrel Coach | the Sindrel Coach]] from [[The White Dragon Coaching Inn | The White Dragon Coaching Inn]] (evening departure).[1]
* *25th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Continued with the party through the [[Anathemists | Anathemist]] ambush on the Deren bridge.[1]
* *26th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Arrived in [[Sindrel | Sindrel]] with the group (afternoon).[2]

<hr>
fn1. [[Session 1: The White Dragon | Session 1: The White Dragon]]
fn2. [[Session 4: Sindrel! | Session 4: Sindrel!]]

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
Real name: Georges de Selve

h2. Role in the Anathemist Plot

Georges de Selve is one of the [[Anathemists | Anathemist]] agents operating under the cover of a wealthy merchant. He entered [[Sindrel | Sindrel]] separately from [[:regnif-d-log | Regnif d'Log]]'s household, alongside Jean de Dinteville, allowing the spy cell to appear as two unrelated groups rather than a single conspiracy.

Georges is a **senior lieutenant** to [[:barnabus | Barnabus]], the cell lead. He acts as quartermaster and commercial face - implementing supply plans and exit strategy Barnabus sets, not owning the overall operation.

Georges acts as the cell's quartermaster and commercial face. Under the cover of ordinary mercantile business, he arranges carts, containers, storehouse access, minor bribes, supplier relationships, and the movement of goods around the city. His merchant identity allows him to purchase or transport suspicious materials in pieces, never drawing attention to the whole.

In the sabotage campaign before the [[Ditchquer | Ditchquer]] closing ceremony, Georges coordinated the mundane logistics. He helped move stolen sulfur and nitre toward [[Quarantine Zone | The Sacrum]], arranged the purchase of charcoal from multiple suppliers, and ensured that no single transaction appeared large enough to expose the plan. He also maintained the cell's exit strategy, making sure that he and [[:jean-de-dinteville | Jean de Dinteville]] could leave [[Sindrel | Sindrel]] after the operation while seeming merely to conclude a period of profitable merchanting.

During the [[Ditchquer | Ditchquer]] closing ceremony, Georges and Jean planted the explosive devices beneath [[The Fulcrum | The Fulcrum]]. When the distraction was underway, they emerged from the tunnels and collect [[:silas-oestra | Silas Oestra]]'s stolen key from [[:arouraios | Arouraios]], who was disguised as a coachman.

Georges, Jean, and the kidnapped locksmith [[:nielsenn | Nielsenn]] then emerge from the [[Osteomantic Archives | archives]] within the [[House Oestra | leaguer]]. In the dark, the crude symbol painted on their armour passed as [[House Oestra | House Oestra]]. Using Silas's key and Nielsenn's locksmith expertise, they gain access to [[:silas-oestra | Silas Oestra]]'s rooms, copied what they could, and stole what they could not.

Afterwards, Georges and Jean took [[:nielsenn | Nielsenn]] back to the Sacum, killed him, and left the city, returning to their cover identities as merchants. Thirty-five days later, they returned to [[Sindrel | Sindrel]] for more “merchanting”, this time accompanied by [[The Adventurers | The Adventurers]].

h3. Investigative footprint

Evidence pointing to Georges may include charcoal purchases, cart hires, merchant warehouse records, gate logs, unusually clean commercial paperwork, supplier testimony, or repeated proximity to loading yards and service entrances. His danger is not that he appears sinister, but that every suspicious movement can be explained as ordinary trade.
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
