---
op_id: 9b1bca509edd4ffa87ef4ad7bcba70d4
op_slug: gillette-quill
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Gillette Quill
title: Gillette Quill
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/gillette-quill
op_created_at: '2025-12-09T19:50:05Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-05T09:30:37Z'
op_gm_only: false
is_player_character: false
tags:
- he/him
avatar_url: https://db4sgowjqfwig.cloudfront.net/images/7433940/516db71a9a089cbb40109ce80dfa0971.jpg
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
Small, wily, and a complete bastard

<!-- OP_BIO -->
* *4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Along with his brother [[:raymond-quill | Raymond]], spends most of the year carrying out petty thefts targeting travellers up and down [[The Mage Road | The Mage Road]].
* *24th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Interrupted by [[:wilrin-racenglade | Wilrin Ravenglade]] while plotting to rob patrons of [[The White Dragon Coaching Inn | The White Dragon Coaching Inn]]; knocked unconscious during the altercation.[1]
* *25th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Traveled with [[The Adventurers | the Adventurers]] on the [[Sindrel Coach | coach]]; remained pinned down during the [[Anathemists | Anathemist]] ambush, unwilling to risk the archers above.[1]
** Survived the coach going over the cliff and continued with the party through flooded [[Fallowhurst | Fallowhurst]] and [[Fallowhurst College | Fallowhurst College]].[2]
* *26th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Traveled with the party from the [[Fallowhurst Outpost | Fallowhurst Outpost]] to [[Sindrel | Sindrel]].[3]
** Parted company with the Adventurers after their arrival in the city (afternoon).[4]

<hr>
fn1. [[Session 1: The White Dragon | Session 1: The White Dragon]]

fn2. [[Session 2: Fallowhurst | Session 2: Fallowhurst]]

fn3. [[Session 3: "Graduation" | Session 3: "Graduation"]]

fn4. [[Session 4: Sindrel! | Session 4: Sindrel!]]

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
The fast brother — small, wiry, and vicious. Fights beside [[:raymond-quill | Raymond]]; see *Brothers' Grift* on Raymond's stat block.

<div class="stat-block">
<h3>Gillette Quill</h3>
<p><em>Small human, neutral evil</em></p>
<p><strong>Armor Class</strong> 15 (studded leather)<br>
<strong>Hit Points</strong> 21 (6d6 + 6)<br>
<strong>Speed</strong> 30 ft.<br>
<strong>Initiative</strong> +4</p>
<hr>
<table>
    <tr><th>STR</th><th>DEX</th><th>CON</th><th>INT</th><th>WIS</th><th>CHA</th></tr>
    <tr><td>8 (-1)</td><td>18 (+4)</td><td>12 (+1)</td><td>11 (+0)</td><td>10 (+0)</td><td>14 (+2)</td></tr>
</table>
<hr>
<p><strong>Skills</strong> Acrobatics +6, Deception +4, Sleight of Hand +6, Stealth +6<br>
<strong>Senses</strong> passive Perception 10<br>
<strong>Languages</strong> Common<br>
<strong>Challenge</strong> 1 (200 XP)<br>
<strong>Proficiency Bonus</strong> +2</p>
<hr>
<p><strong>Nimble.</strong> Gillette can take the Disengage or Hide action as a bonus action on each of his turns.</p>
<hr>
<h4>Actions</h4>
<p><strong>Multiattack.</strong> Gillette makes two shortsword attacks.</p>
<p><strong>Shortsword.</strong> <em>Melee Weapon Attack:</em> +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. <em>Hit:</em> 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage.</p>
<p><strong>Light Crossbow.</strong> <em>Ranged Weapon Attack:</em> +6 to hit, range 80/320 ft., one target. <em>Hit:</em> 7 (1d8 + 3) piercing damage.</p>
</div>
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
