---
op_id: e12cd3da90b44b63a004da5715927ff5
op_slug: hielaman
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Captain Hielaman
title: Captain Hielaman
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/hielaman
op_created_at: '2026-01-27T11:33:21Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-04T11:11:49Z'
op_gm_only: false
is_player_character: false
tags:
- House Meness
- Factor
- he/him
avatar_url: https://db4sgowjqfwig.cloudfront.net/images/7467306/Half-Elf-Illustration.jpg
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
The captain is a gruff half-elf man with pale skin and an athletic, square-shouldered build, his pale hair cropped short and his jaw clean-shaven, his knuckles scarred from sword work. On duty he wears the [[House Meness | Meness]] watch uniform: a long white high-collared tunic-coat squared at the shoulders, charcoal trousers tucked into polished black boots, black calfskin gloves, and a broad belt from which hang a shortsword and truncheon — the House trident embroidered on the coat's back. He carries a standard-issue kite shield when armed for the field.

Hielaman carries himself with poise and precision — a man accustomed to command and conscious that he represents his House in every interaction. He is watchful, impatient with nonsense. He speaks in clipped, authoritative sentences, as though every word were an order waiting to be obeyed.

h3. Key Items

* [[Private Warwick's Report | Private Warwick's Report]] (official custody)

<!-- OP_BIO -->
Hielaman is a [[Factor | Factor]] of [[House Meness | House Meness]]. He fulfills a role similar to 'captain of the guard'.

* *26th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** An explosion was observed on the plane outside [[Sindrel | Sindrel]]. Hielaman and his squad were dispatched via portal to investigate.
** On arrival, they encountered the aftermath of [[The Adventurers | The Neighbourhood Wonch]]'s conflict with a small force of [[Anathemists | Anathemists]].
** Hielaman took custody of the surviving [[:arise-to-victory-over-the-infidel-hoards | Anathemist Lieutenant]], received the [[Private Warwick's Report | report]] of [[:sebastian-warwick | Private Sebastian Warwick]], and escorted [[The Adventurers | the Wonch]] back to [[Sindrel | Sindrel]].

* *28th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Encountering [[:pin | Pin]] in a bar, Hielaman entered into a heated discussion of the performance of his favoured Diechquer team - The Griffon's Talons. This discussion devolved rapidly, and Hieleman and Pin parted on acrimonious terms, the former receiving a split lip to match the latter's black eye.

* *29th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Hielaman's interrogation of [[:arise-to-victory-over-the-infidel-hoards | the Anathemist Lieutenant]] having revealed that the [[Anathemists | Anathemists]] have access to privileged information, a [[Hexine Circle | Hexine Circle]] is convened in the morning. Unable to reach resolution, the council enlists [[The Adventurers | the Wonch]] to root out the spies they suspect have infiltrated the city.

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
h2. Spies lead

bq). Shake down the local criminals. Our spies need ways to move about the city, ways to get their hands on information, equipment, resources, all without being noticed. That requires a lot of familiarity with the city. Why start from scratch when you can use whats already here? Somewhere out there are some mid- to high-level crooks who are suddenly much better paid as a reward for the treason. Below them are petty scum looking to get rich. They're the weak link, find them and lean on them. Our spies need ways to move about the city, ways to get their hands on information, equipment, resources, all without being noticed. That requires a lot of familiarity with the city. Why start from scratch when you can use whats already here? Somewhere out there are some mid- to high-level crooks who are suddenly much better paid as a reward for the treason. Below them are petty scum looking to get rich. They’re the weak link, find them and lean on them.

Should lead to [[The Black Cats | the Black Cats]] (see [[The Black Cats | Black Cats]] wiki). Hielaman is personally straight-lace and unaware of Vault kompromat; his superiors are compromised, which is why he counsels against a head-on leadership strike but will happily push the Wonch at **Strands** and **Counters**. If he investigates seriously past that, Vault will treat him as a threat - hard to blackmail, dangerous to ignore.

Should lead to the quills, or Nakoma’s new friends. Either have contacts who know that _somebody_ was muscling in on the garbage collection - usually the domain of crime syndicates since it's a good way to move things without being noticed. Enough prodding will lead them to a new garbage service, actually a few local ruffians who found a cart abandoned just inside outside the [[Quarantine Zone | quarantine zone]].

This leads them to the [[Quarantine Zone | quarantine zone]], but they'll need magical defences to get far without dying.

If they get it, they can find the spies headquarters, now abandoned. Much of the evidence has been burned but there's a scrap of paper with [[House Oestra | House Oestra]]'s mark.
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
