---
op_id: 6eacb1bcf1914d3ab6564eada8c4d045
op_slug: jean-de-dinteville
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Merchant 2
title: Merchant 2
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/jean-de-dinteville
op_created_at: '2026-02-01T16:44:52Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-04T11:21:45Z'
op_gm_only: false
is_player_character: false
tags:
- he/him
- Human
avatar_url: https://db4sgowjqfwig.cloudfront.net/images/7469571/960px-Georges_de_Selve.jpg
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
You see a tall human man with fair skin and a wiry, narrow-shouldered build, his dark beard trimmed to a merchant's neatness and his hair worn shoulder-length under a fur-trimmed travelling cap. He dresses as a wealthy visitor from [[Artresh | Artresh]] — brocade doublet, wine-coloured cloak, good boots — the costume of someone who expects invitations. He presents as sociable and self-assured, a man comfortable in any dining hall. He speaks in easy, cultivated phrases, always sounding as though he is offering a favour.

<!-- OP_BIO -->
* *24th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Travelled with [[The Adventurers | the Wonch]] in [[Sindrel Coach | the Sindrel Coach]] from [[The White Dragon Coaching Inn | The White Dragon Coaching Inn]] (evening departure).[1]
* *25th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Continued with the party through the [[Anathemists | Anathemist]] ambush on the Deren bridge.[1]
* *26th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Arrived in [[Sindrel | Sindrel]] with the group (afternoon).[2]

<div class="op-footnotes">

fn1. [[Session 1: The White Dragon | Session 1: The White Dragon]]

fn2. [[Session 4: Sindrel! | Session 4: Sindrel!]]

</div>

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
Real name: Jean de Dinteville

Zealot name: *Let the Proud Stumble at the Feast*

h2. Role in the Anathemist Plot

Jean de Dinteville is one of the [[Anathemists | Anathemist]] agents operating under the cover of a wealthy merchant. He entered [[Sindrel | Sindrel]] with [[:georges-de-selve | Georges de Selve]], separately from [[:regnif-d-log | Regnif d'Log]], [[:marceline | Marceline]], and [[:arouraios | Arouraios]]. This allowed the cell to maintain two plausible social fronts inside the city: a respectable merchant partnership and a visiting household retinue.

Jean is a **senior lieutenant** to [[:marceline | Marceline]], the cell lead. Target selection and social access (e.g. the [[Ditchquer | Ditchquer]] night, the [[House Lithra | Lithra]] punchbowl scandal) serve objectives Marceline sets; Jean does not run the cell independently.

Jean acts as the cell's social infiltrator and intelligence gatherer. Where [[:georges-de-selve | Georges]] handles goods, carts, and commercial logistics, Jean handles people, invitations, timings, and access. He uses merchant society, high-status hospitality, and polite conversation to learn where important figures will be, when they will be distracted, and which civic or House functions offer useful cover.

In the sabotage campaign before the [[Ditchquer | Ditchquer]] closing ceremony, Jean helped identify opportunities where disruption will conceal theft or movement. He gathered information about patrol habits, guest access, House routines, and civic ceremonies. He also helps identify the [[Ditchquer | Ditchquer]] closing ceremony as the ideal night for the [[The Fulcrum | Fulcrum]] diversion and the intrusion into [[:silas-oestra | Silas Oestra]]'s rooms.

Jean also helped select the [[House Lithra | House Lithra]] diplomatic incident as a useful piece of destabilisation. By identifying a social function where an enchanted punch ladle could create scandal rather than obvious violence, he contributed to the pattern of accidents that seemed strange, embarrassing, or alarming without immediately revealing a coherent military objective.

During the [[Ditchquer | Ditchquer]] closing ceremony, Jean and Georges planted the explosive devices beneath [[The Fulcrum | The Fulcrum]]. After [[:marceline | Marceline]] stole [[:silas-oestra | Silas Oestra]]'s key and passed it to [[:arouraios | Arouraios]], Jean and Georges emerged from the tunnels and collected it.

Jean and Georges then travelled through the [[Osteomantic Archives | archives]], collected [[:nielsenn | Nielsenn]] from the [[Quarantine Zone | Sacrum]], then emerged within the [[House Oestra | Leageur]] wearing armour whose painted symbol passed as [[House Oestra | House Oestra]] in the dark. With Silas's key and Nielsenn's locksmith skills, they accessed [[:silas-oestra | Silas Oestra]]'s rooms, copied what they could, and stole what they could not. Jean and Georges then took Nielsenn back to the cell's headquarters, killed him, and left [[Sindrel | Sindrel]], returning to their merchant identities.

Thirty-five days later, Jean and Georges returned to [[Sindrel | Sindrel]] for more “merchanting”, this time in the company of [[The Adventurers | The Adventurers]].

h3. Investigative footprint

Evidence pointing to Jean may include guest lists, polite correspondence, servants' recollections, seating charts, introductions to House officials, and his presence at gatherings that later become relevant to sabotage timings. Jean should feel like someone who never forced a door because he was always invited through one.
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
