---
op_id: ba70a1fc7e2545f58bdc5e1419cb44bc
op_slug: journeyman-galoras
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Journeyman Galoras
title: Journeyman Galoras
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/journeyman-galoras
op_created_at: '2026-01-27T21:17:56Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-04T11:14:42Z'
op_gm_only: false
is_player_character: false
tags:
- House Mabon
- Factor
- they/them
avatar_url: https://db4sgowjqfwig.cloudfront.net/images/7467759/Screenshot_2026-01-29_at_15.32.50.png
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
You see a kenku with a compact, quick-fingered build, their plumage ink-blue from crown to flight feathers and their beak dark and slightly scuffed from workshop work. Enchanted tinkerer's goggles — brass-rimmed lenses that faintly glow when they focus — sit pushed up on their brow or dropped over their eyes. They wear [[House Mabon | Mabon]] craft dress: layered indigo wool and storm-grey linen in an asymmetrical cut, a reinforced work apron, and a broad sash — sleeves rolled, hands left free, maker's marks on the clasps. They present as eager to help and visibly short on social confidence, lighting up when a problem turns technical. They speak in enthusiastic bursts stitched from borrowed workshop phrases, veering into cryptic jargon about "force multipliers" when weapons or mechanisms are mentioned.

<!-- OP_BIO -->
[[Factor | Factor]] of [[House Mabon | House Mabon]].

* *29th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Joined the [[Hexine Circle | Hexine Circle]] convened in the morning after the Anathemist leak was discovered.
** Briefed [[:ayr | Ayr]] on months of suspicious "incidents" around the city during the house interviews that followed immediately; commissioned [[The Gentleman's Greeting | The Gentleman's Greeting]] at Ayr's request and gifted a small self-rotating device.
* *30th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Delivered the finished blade to [[:ayr | Ayr]] at [[Radwasp House | Radwasp House]].

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
h2. Spies lead

bq). Incidents, the last months. Misfortune maybe, sabotage we fear. Appearing random, but always a design beneath. The random hides the pattern. Find the parts that do not fit, pull on them until deception unravels.

h2. Sabotage catalogue

* A Tyromancer poisoned by his own cheese - overdose of hallucinogens. (Goela)
* Magical locksmith vaporised when one of his own traps misfired. ([[House Mabon | House Mabon]])
* Explosive devices beneath [[The Fulcrum | The Fulcrum]] on [[Ditchquer | Ditchquer]] closing night.
* Hydromancer drowned when a water-generator control rod was inverted; overflow ruined silos (cover for saltpetre theft).
* Beltus summoner possessed after a vandalised circle; demon's leavings exploded in refuse (cover for sulphur theft).
* [[House Lithra | Lithra]] punch ladle swapped for a geis of truth-speaking — diplomatic scandal.
* [[House Meness | House Meness]] enchanter commissioned reflection on an already-reflective amulet — rebounding enchantment.
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
