---
op_id: 27142b6fc6b246bf9f2b6e8ea11dbfac
op_slug: kithrak-ii
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Kithrak II
title: Kithrak II
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/kithrak-ii
op_created_at: '2026-04-23T10:38:12Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-14T07:52:11Z'
op_gm_only: false
is_player_character: false
tags:
- in-party
- Undead
avatar_url: https://db4sgowjqfwig.cloudfront.net/images/7516425/farp_small_wall_texture_product_750x1000.jpg
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
A miniature undead black dragon adopted in the [[Osteomantic Archives | catacombs]].

<!-- OP_BIO -->
* *29th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Adopted in the Hall of Dragons beneath the [[Osteomantic Archives | Osteomantic Archives]], nesting inside the remains of [[:kithrak-the-black | Kithrak the Black]].[1]
* *31st of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** With [[The Adventurers | the Wonch]] at [[The Fulcrum | The Fulcrum]] and [[:nort | Nort]]'s interview; paid [[:nort | Nort]] shiny things for her trouble.[2]
** Picked up [[:chuggaz | Chuggaz]]'s trail from the Fulcrum roster desk and followed it toward [[The Wallarch District | Wallarch]].[3]

<div class="op-footnotes">

fn1. [[Session 7: Into The Catacombs | Session 7: Into The Catacombs]]

fn2. [[Session 11: Gunpowder, Treason, and Plot | Session 11: Gunpowder, Treason, and Plot]]

fn3. [[Session 12: No Questions, Some Answers | Session 12: No Questions, Some Answers]]

</div>

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
<div class="stat-block">
<h3>Kithrak II</h3>
<p><em>Small undead, unaligned</em></p>
<p><strong>Armor Class</strong> 13<br>
<strong>Hit Points</strong> 9 (2d6 + 2)<br>
<strong>Speed</strong> 15 ft., fly 60 ft.<br>
<strong>Initiative</strong> +2</p>
<hr>
<table>
    <tr><th>STR</th><th>DEX</th><th>CON</th><th>INT</th><th>WIS</th><th>CHA</th></tr>
    <tr><td>6 (-2)</td><td>15 (+2)</td><td>13 (+1)</td><td>10 (+0)</td><td>12 (+1)</td><td>10 (+0)</td></tr>
</table>
<hr>
<p><strong>Skills</strong> Perception +3<br>
<strong>Senses</strong> blindsight 10 ft., darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 13<br>
<strong>Languages</strong> understands Common and Draconic but can't speak<br>
<strong>Challenge</strong> 1/2 (100 XP)<br>
<strong>Proficiency Bonus</strong> +2</p>
<hr>
<p><strong>Magic Resistance.</strong> Kithrak II has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects.</p>
<hr>
<h4>Actions</h4>
<p><strong>Bite.</strong> <em>Melee Weapon Attack:</em> +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. <em>Hit:</em> 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage.</p>
<p><strong>Necrotic Breath (Recharge 4–6).</strong> Kithrak II exhales deathly flame in a 10-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.</p>
</div>
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
