---
op_id: b5905d329c974734a0bf65293f730993
op_slug: lord-ablas-oestra
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Lord Ablas Oestra
title: Lord Ablas Oestra
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/lord-ablas-oestra
op_created_at: '2025-11-26T18:29:51Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-06-24T16:25:14Z'
op_gm_only: true
is_player_character: false
tags:
- House Oestra
- Lord of Sindrel
- he/him
avatar_url: https://db4sgowjqfwig.cloudfront.net/images/7440785/bdbdb62fda17e7b45427df2f2b00c397.jpg
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
The 21st Lord Oestra cuts an imposing figure. He is encased from crown to heel in ornate red-and-black plate armour. No skin shows — hood, helm, and gauntlets read as one sealed system, and heat shimmers at the joints as if the armour were rationing a furnace. Like the other high ranking members of his house he wears a long cloak bearing the Oestra crest. Unlike them he has eschewed the traditional red velvet in favour of a floor length drape of iron-black chainmail with the crest picked out in rings of brass.

He is accompanied by three men in ornate, but more conventional, Oestran formal armour. One carries an iron-bound book, the others bear a colossal longsword. The silver blade Deathwalker took from the statue in the archives is but a pale imitation of the real deal.

<!-- OP_BIO -->


<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
Lord Ablas Oestra is the ancient head of [[House Oestra | House Oestra]] and one of the surviving [[The Octarion Circle | founders]] of [[Sindrel | Sindrel]]. His symbolic item is the sword [[:the-gladius | Gladius]], and the colour of his House is red.

Ablas is the master of [[House Oestra | House Oestra]]'s destructive tradition, but his evocation has grown beyond ordinary control. His own power burns too fiercely to be safely housed in an unprotected body. Without containment, he would incinerate the room around him.

For this reason, Ablas must remain sealed within magical containment armour. The armour is not merely ceremonial or defensive. It is a prison, a regulator, and a warning. It allows the Lord of [[House Oestra | House Oestra]] to continue existing among others without destroying them by proximity.

h4. The Founder’s Burden

[[House Oestra | House Oestra]] prizes duty, force, battle, and decisive action. Ablas has become a living weapon, but one too dangerous to draw. The Sword remains the perfect symbol for him: power focused to a killing edge, useful only when controlled, disastrous when mishandled.

h4. Depictions

In paintings and statues of the founders, Lord Oestra is shown as a human male of regal bearing clad in heavy armour. Haughty, aggressive, and vain.
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
