---
op_id: 4fe58ab4b800450e97fefba3710e0f4c
op_slug: marceline
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Marceline
title: Marceline
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/marceline
op_created_at: '2026-07-17T07:58:23Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-17T07:58:23Z'
op_gm_only: true
is_player_character: false
tags:
- she/her
- Human
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
You see a grey-haired woman with a scarred cheek, dressed in fancy foreign clothes that mark her as wealthy rather than local. She carries herself like someone accustomed to being obeyed.

<!-- OP_BIO -->


<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
h2. Zealot name

*Hold Fast the Covenant in Shadow* — used in [[Anathemists | Anathemist]] oaths and secure cell traffic; cover name **Marceline** in [[Sindrel | Sindrel]].

h2. Role in the Anathemist Plot

Marceline is the **de-facto coordinator and cell lead** for the [[Anathemists | Anathemist]] infiltration of [[Sindrel | Sindrel]]. She is embedded in [[:regnif-d-log | Regnif d'Log]]'s household, outwardly serving as d'Log's butler.

[[:georges-de-selve | Georges de Selve]] and [[:jean-de-dinteville | Jean de Dinteville]] are **senior lieutenants** - merchant cover for logistics, strike actions, and exit. [[:arouraios | Arouraios]] reports to Marceline as route-finder and mapper. [[:regnif-d-log | d'Log]] is the patsy, not the leader.

Marceline acts as the cell's fixer, handler, and domestic infiltrator. She exploits the invisible authority of service: appointments, letters, errands, household accounts, livery contacts, deliveries, tradespeople, and servants' gossip. She does not need to force access when she can arrange it as part of somebody else's routine.

Supposedly acting as [[:regnif-d-log | Regnif d'Log]]'s agent, Marceline made a deal with [[:kelferria-the-smith | Kelferria]] of [[House Mabon | House Mabon]] for a large order of enchanted armour. She made a large down payment and promised much more, but the samples were the true objective. The armour served two purposes: protection within the [[Quarantine Zone | Quarantine Zone]], allowing the cell to use The [[Quarantine Zone | Sacrum]] as a staging ground, and disguise. Because Kelferria supplies [[House Oestra | House Oestra]], the chest-plates can pass as Oestra armour at a distance once crudely decorated with the Oestra crest.

In the sabotage campaign before the [[Ditchquer | Ditchquer]] closing ceremony, Marceline used servant networks to learn which households, [[Factor | Factors]], and House officials are vulnerable to distraction or theft. She helped identify [[:nielsenn | Nielsenn]] as a useful locksmith and helped arrange the circumstances that allow him to be kidnapped and his death staged. She also hid suspicious purchases inside d'Log's household accounts, including unusually high charcoal use at the lodgings.

During the [[Ditchquer | Ditchquer]] closing ceremony, Marceline stole [[:silas-oestra | Silas Oestra]]'s [[Silas Oestra's Chamber Key | chamber key]] and passed it to [[:arouraios | Arouraios]], who was disguised as a coachman. A brief exchange between two servants passed beneath the notice of anyone in the room. This theft enabled [[:georges-de-selve | Georges de Selve]], [[:jean-de-dinteville | Jean de Dinteville]], and [[:nielsenn | Nielsenn]] to access [[:silas-oestra | Silas Oestra]]'s rooms.

After the [[Ditchquer | Ditchquer]] operation, Marceline remained in [[Sindrel | Sindrel]] as part of d'Log's retinue, permitted to stay until her master's business is concluded. This makes her the spy cell's remaining embedded agent after Georges and Jean depart.

h3. Timeline

* *32nd of Eptan, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Entered Sindrel as part of the d'Log household (butler).
** Placed [[:kelferria-the-smith | Kelferria]] enchanted-armour order in d'Log's name (samples for Sacrum staging and false Oestra kit).
* *36th of Eptan, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Theft of Black Cats waste cart.
* *6th of Ostory, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** [[House Grimbolg | Grimbolg]] water-silo sabotage ([[:dogara | D'gara]] drowned); nitre theft under cover of the flood.
* *8th of Ostory, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Kidnap of [[:nielsenn | Nielsenn]]; staged shop explosion (public record: vaporisation).
* *14th of Ostory, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** [[House Beltus | Beltus]] summoning sabotage ([[:caller-georg | Caller Georg]] killed in the chaos); sulphur theft under cover of the demon incident.
* *21st of Ostory, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Sabotage of [[:emissary-isius | Emissary Isius]] — opportunistic attack to obscure the wider plan.
* *25th of Ostory, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** During the [[Ditchquer | Ditchquer]] closing ceremony, stole [[:silas-oestra | Silas Oestra]]'s [[Silas Oestra's Chamber Key | chamber key]] and passed it to [[:arouraios | Arouraios]], disguised as a coachman — a brief exchange between two servants beneath the notice of the room.
* *34th of Ostory, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Poisoning of [[:f-lar-mnementh | Tyromancer Pterath]] ([[House Goela | Goela]]) — stay-behind operation after Georges and Jean depart.
* *8th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Anonymous commission to [[:craftsman-shegrim | Craftsman Shegrim]] — double-reflection amulet trap.
* *17th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** [[:major-vindas | Major Vindas]] killed by inverted reflection armour (chestplate commissioned via Shegrim).

h3. Investigative footprint

Evidence pointing to Marceline may include household account irregularities, messages sent in d'Log's name, servant testimony, the Kelferria armour order, charcoal purchases, unexplained knowledge of [[:silas-oestra | Silas Oestra]]'s movements, and any clue showing that d'Log's authority was used without d'Log's understanding.
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
