---
op_id: 7d77af4f53574b049e98cd0a3784f6af
op_slug: nakoma-deathwalker-mor-got-ha
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Nakoma Deathwalker Mor'got'ha
title: Nakoma Deathwalker Mor'got'ha
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/nakoma-deathwalker-mor-got-ha
op_created_at: '2025-12-14T19:32:39Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-02T14:36:56Z'
op_gm_only: false
is_player_character: true
tags:
- she/her
avatar_url: https://db4sgowjqfwig.cloudfront.net/images/7457474/572fdc897647939edd9359829283e7ba.jpg
dndbeyond_id: '157065911'
dndbeyond_url: https://www.dndbeyond.com/characters/157065911
dndbeyond_synced_at: '2026-07-08T15:39:32Z'
---

<!-- OP_DDB_SHEET -->
<div class="ddb-sheet">
  <div class="ddb-header">
    <div class="ddb-header-main">
      <h1 class="ddb-name">Nakoma Deathwalker Mor'got'ha</h1>
      <p class="ddb-subtitle">Barbarian 2 / Wizard 1</p>
      <ul class="ddb-meta">
        <li><span class="ddb-label">Proficiency</span> +2</li>
      </ul>
      <p class="ddb-links">Perspehone · The Lords of Sindrel</p>
    </div>
    <div class="ddb-avatar-wrap"></div>
  </div>

  <div class="ddb-section ddb-defenses">
    <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Defenses</h2>
    <div class="ddb-pill-grid">
      <div class="ddb-pill"><span class="ddb-pill-label">AC</span><span class="ddb-pill-value">12</span></div>
      <div class="ddb-pill ddb-pill-wide">
        <span class="ddb-pill-label">HP</span>
        <span class="ddb-pill-value">10</span>
        <span class="ddb-pill-sep">/</span>
        <span class="ddb-pill-value">23</span>
      </div>
      <div class="ddb-pill"><span class="ddb-pill-label">Speed</span><span class="ddb-pill-value">30 ft.</span></div>
      <div class="ddb-pill"><span class="ddb-pill-label">Init</span><span class="ddb-pill-value">-1</span></div>
      <div class="ddb-pill"><span class="ddb-pill-label">Hit Dice</span><span class="ddb-pill-value"></span></div>
    </div>
  </div>

  <div class="ddb-columns">
    <div class="ddb-section">
      <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Abilities</h2>
      <div class="ddb-ability-grid">
        <div class="ddb-ability"><span class="ddb-ability-label">STR</span><span class="ddb-ability-value">20 (+5)</span></div>
        <div class="ddb-ability"><span class="ddb-ability-label">DEX</span><span class="ddb-ability-value">8 (-1)</span></div>
        <div class="ddb-ability"><span class="ddb-ability-label">CON</span><span class="ddb-ability-value">15 (+2)</span></div>
        <div class="ddb-ability"><span class="ddb-ability-label">INT</span><span class="ddb-ability-value">13 (+1)</span></div>
        <div class="ddb-ability"><span class="ddb-ability-label">WIS</span><span class="ddb-ability-value">7 (-2)</span></div>
        <div class="ddb-ability"><span class="ddb-ability-label">CHA</span><span class="ddb-ability-value">12 (+1)</span></div>
      </div>
      <h3 class="ddb-subsection-title">Saving Throws</h3>
      <div class="ddb-ability-grid">
        <div class="ddb-ability"><span class="ddb-ability-label">STR</span><span class="ddb-ability-value">+5</span></div>
        <div class="ddb-ability"><span class="ddb-ability-label">DEX</span><span class="ddb-ability-value">-1</span></div>
        <div class="ddb-ability"><span class="ddb-ability-label">CON</span><span class="ddb-ability-value">+2</span></div>
        <div class="ddb-ability"><span class="ddb-ability-label">INT</span><span class="ddb-ability-value">+1</span></div>
        <div class="ddb-ability"><span class="ddb-ability-label">WIS</span><span class="ddb-ability-value">-2</span></div>
        <div class="ddb-ability"><span class="ddb-ability-label">CHA</span><span class="ddb-ability-value">+1</span></div>
      </div>
    </div>

    <div class="ddb-section">
      <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Skills &amp; Senses</h2>
      <div class="ddb-block ddb-skills">Acrobatics -1<br>
Animal Handling -2<br>
Arcana +1<br>
Athletics +7 *<br>
Deception +1<br>
History +3 *<br>
Insight -2<br>
Intimidation +3 *<br>
Investigation +1<br>
Medicine -2<br>
Nature +1<br>
Perception +0 *<br>
Performance +1<br>
Persuasion +1<br>
Religion +1<br>
Sleight Of Hand -1<br>
Stealth -1<br>
Survival +0 *</div>
      <div class="ddb-sense-row">
        <div><span class="ddb-sense-label">Passive Perception</span><span class="ddb-sense-value">10</span></div>
        <div><span class="ddb-sense-label">Passive Investigation</span><span class="ddb-sense-value">11</span></div>
        <div><span class="ddb-sense-label">Passive Insight</span><span class="ddb-sense-value">8</span></div>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>

  <div class="ddb-section">
<h2 class="ddb-section-title">Combat</h2>
<h3 class="ddb-subsection-title">Actions</h3>
<div class="ddb-block"><strong>The Bi-Flail - Maul Form.</strong> +7 to hit, range 5 ft., 2d6 bludgeoning<br>
<strong>The Bi-Flail - Flail Form.</strong> +7 to hit, range 5 ft., 1d8 bludgeoning<br>
<strong>Handaxe.</strong> +7 to hit, range 20 ft., 1d6 slashing<br>
<strong>Handaxe.</strong> +7 to hit, range 20 ft., 1d6 slashing<br>
<strong>Javelin.</strong> +7 to hit, range 30 ft., 1d6 piercing<br>
<strong>Arcane Recovery.</strong> Once per day when you finish a short rest, you can choose expended spell slots to recover - up to a combined level of , and none of the slots can be 6th level or higher.</div>
<h3 class="ddb-subsection-title">Bonus Actions</h3>
<div class="ddb-block"><strong>Rage.</strong> As a bonus action enter a rage for up to 1 minute (10 rounds). You gain advantage on STR checks and saving throws (not attacks), melee damage with STR weapons, resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, slashing damage. You can't cast or concentrate on spells while raging. Your rage ends early if you are knocked unconscious or if your turn ends and you haven’t attacked a hostile creature since your last turn or taken damage since then. You can also end your rage as a bonus action.</div>
<h3 class="ddb-subsection-title">Reactions</h3>
<div class="ddb-block"><strong>Stone’s Endurance.</strong> As a reaction, reduce damage dealt to you by 1d12 once per short rest.</div>
</div>

  <div class="ddb-columns ddb-bottom-row">
    <div class="ddb-section ddb-half">
      <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Proficiencies &amp; Training</h2>
      <div class="ddb-kv"><span class="ddb-label">Proficiencies</span><span class="ddb-kv-value">Light Armor, Medium Armor, Shields; Martial Weapons, Simple Weapons; Choose a Wizard Skill, Crossbow, Light, Dagger, Dart, Quarterstaff, Shields, Sling</span></div>
      <div class="ddb-kv"><span class="ddb-label">Languages</span><span class="ddb-kv-value">Common, Giant</span></div>
      <div class="ddb-kv"><span class="ddb-label">Tools</span><span class="ddb-kv-value">—</span></div>
    </div>
      <div class="ddb-section ddb-half">
    <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Spellcasting</h2>
    <div class="ddb-spell-header">
      <div><span class="ddb-label">Ability</span> int</div>
      <div><span class="ddb-label">Save DC</span> 11</div>
      <div><span class="ddb-label">Attack</span> +3</div>
    </div>
    <h3 class="ddb-subsection-title">Spell Slots</h3>
    <div class="ddb-block">1st 4<br>
2nd 2</div>
    <h3 class="ddb-subsection-title">Spells Prepared / Known</h3>
    <div class="ddb-block">Cantrips: Chill Touch, Green-Flame Blade, Toll the Dead<br>
Level 1: Cause Fear, False Life</div>
  </div>

  </div>

  <div class="ddb-footer">
    <p class="ddb-sync"><span class="ddb-label">D&amp;D Beyond sync</span> 2026-07-08 15:39 UTC</p>
    <p class="ddb-disclaimer">Unofficial fan layout inspired by digital character sheet sections. Not affiliated with Wizards of the Coast or D&amp;D Beyond.</p>
  </div>
</div>

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
Nakoma is a 8ft tall Goliath from one of the mountain clans. In looks she appears to be around mid 40s but she either will not tell people or does not remember her exact age. Her skin is a stony grey reminiscent of granite. She is covered in a collection of faded tattoos which have symbolic meaning to her clan but they have not been maintained so it appears that whichever clan she is/was a part of it has been a long time since she has been in contact with them. In addition to her tattoos she is covered in scars, some scars are small, but some are large an deadly looking. Her hair is made up of a combination of dreads and plaits with quills, feathers and metal adornments woven into them. Her manner of dress is similar to Native American warrirors, made of mostly leathers, and some bone pieces.

Since the 'incident' in Fallowhurst she also sports a sigil burned into the skin of her back which mirrors the one burnt into [[:wilrin-racenglade | Wilrin's]] eye.

<!-- OP_BIO -->
There have been varied sightings and mentions of Deathwalker over the last few decades. No one appears to know exactly where she is from or her exact age. It is unknown how many Deathwalkers there have been from the Mor'got'ha clan. Indeed there is some speculation that the Deathwalker line might have some relation to Deathbringer, one of the most mightiest warriors from ancient history who was pivotal in the battle against the necromantic [[The Thaumocracy of Tellerin | Tellerites]] for the description of Deathbringers tattoos have a familial resemblance to Deathwalkers, and indeed the entire Deathwalker line. If this is the case then Deathwalker is descended from what might be the Goliath equivalent of royalty.

Deathwalker has only been recorded in a handful of major battles. Accounts disagree on which was most recent before her arrival in [[Sindrel | Sindrel]]; mercenary rolls and traveller gossip place her on several distant fields in the years before the pilgrimage routes turned toward the city. Since then she has been sighted traveling, sometimes alone, sometimes within a small group, but she never remains with any group too long.

Her most recent traveling companions seem to be an eclectic bunch.

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
<!-- OP_DDB_GM_FEATURES -->
<notextile>
<div class="ddb-sheet ddb-sheet-gm">
  <div class="ddb-section">
    <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Features &amp; Traits</h2>
    <div class="ddb-block"><strong>Natural Athlete.</strong> You have proficiency in the Athletics skill.<br>
<strong>Stone’s Endurance.</strong> As a reaction, reduce damage dealt to you by 1d12 once per short rest.<br>
<strong>Powerful Build.</strong> You count as one size larger when determining your carrying capacity and the weight you can push, drag, or lift.<br>
<strong>Mountain Born.</strong> You don't suffer the penalties for being in high altitudes, and have resistance to cold damage.<br>
<strong>Ability Score Increase.</strong> Your Strength score increases by 2, and your Constitution score increases by 1.<br>
<strong>Languages.</strong> You can speak, read, and write Common and Giant.<br>
<strong>Age.</strong> Goliaths have lifespans comparable to humans. They enter adulthood in their late teens and usually live less than a century.<br>
<strong>Size.</strong> Goliaths are between 7 and 8 feet tall and weigh between 280 and 340 pounds. Your size is Medium.<br>
<strong>Speed.</strong> Your base walking speed is 30 feet.<br>
<strong>Rage.</strong> As a bonus action enter a rage for up to 1 minute (10 rounds). You gain advantage on STR checks and saving throws (not attacks), melee damage with STR weapons, resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, slashing damage. You can't cast or concentrate on spells while raging. Your rage ends early if you are knocked unconscious or if your turn ends and you haven’t attacked a hostile creature since your last turn or taken damage since then. You can also end your rage as a bonus action.<br>
<strong>Unarmored Defense.</strong> While not wearing armor, your AC equals + any shield bonus.<br>
<strong>Reckless Attack.</strong> When you make your first attack on your turn, you can decide to attack recklessly, giving you advantage on melee weapon attack rolls using STR during this turn, but attack rolls against you have advantage until your next turn.<br>
<strong>Danger Sense.</strong> You have advantage on DEX saving throws against effects that you can see while not blinded, deafened, or incapacitated.<br>
<strong>Primal Path.</strong> At 3rd level, you choose a path that shapes the nature of your rage. Your choice grants you features at 3rd level and again at 6th, 10th, and 14th levels.<br>
<strong>Proficiencies.</strong> Armor: Light armor, medium armor, shields Weapons: Simple weapons, martial weapons Tools: None Saving Throws: Strength, Constitution Skills: Choose two from Animal Handling, Athletics, Intimidation, Nature, Perception, and Survival<br>
<strong>Hit Points.</strong> Hit Dice: 1d12 per barbarian level Hit Points at 1st Level: 12 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d12 (or 7) + your Constitution modifier per barbarian level after 1st<br>
<strong>Equipment.</strong> You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background: (a) a greataxe or (b) any martial melee weapon (a) two handaxes or (b) any simple weapon An explorer’s pack and four javelins<br>
<strong>Spellcasting.</strong> You can cast prepared wizard spells using INT as your spellcasting modifier (Spell DC , Spell Attack ) and wizard spells in your spellbook as rituals if they have the ritual tag. You can use an arcane focus as a spellcasting focus.<br>
<strong>Arcane Recovery.</strong> Once per day when you finish a short rest, you can choose expended spell slots to recover - up to a combined level of , and none of the slots can be 6th level or higher.<br>
<strong>Arcane Tradition.</strong> When you reach 2nd level, you choose an arcane tradition, shaping your practice of magic through one of eight schools: Abjuration, Conjuration, Divination, Enchantment, Evocation, Illusion, Necromancy, or Transmutation. The School of Evocation&amp;nbsp;is detailed at the end of the class description, and more choices are available in other sources. Your choice grants you features at 2nd level and again at 6th, 10th, and 14th level.<br>
<strong>Proficiencies.</strong> Armor: None Weapons: Daggers, darts, slings, quarterstaffs, light crossbows Tools: None Saving Throws: Intelligence, Wisdom Skills: Choose two from Arcana, History, Insight, Investigation, Medicine, and Religion<br>
<strong>Hit Points.</strong> Hit Dice: 1d6 per wizard level Hit Points at 1st Level: 6 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d6 (or 4) + your Constitution modifier per wizard level after 1st<br>
<strong>Equipment.</strong> You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background: (a) a quarterstaff or (b) a dagger (a) a component pouch or (b) an arcane focus (a) a scholar’s pack or (b) an explorer’s pack A spellbook<br>
<strong>Hero's Journey Boon.</strong> At your GM's discretion you have been granted a Hero's Journey Boon.<br>
<strong>Dark Bargain.</strong> At your GM's discretion, you have taken a Dark Bargain.</div>
  </div>
</div>
</notextile>
<!-- OP_DDB_GM_FEATURES_END -->

**Player secret (OP Player Secrets UI only - do not put in bio; not API-synced):**

h2. [[The Fallowhurst Sigil | The Fallowhurst Sigil]]

You and [[:wilrin-racenglade | Wilrin Ravenglade]] were branded with matching sigil scars when his blood-magic attempt with the [[The Fallowhurst Sigil | Fallowhurst sigil]] at [[Fallowhurst College | Fallowhurst College]] backfired. The binding still has teeth:

Whenever you take damage, Wilrin rolls a d8. On a 1, you take half damage and he takes the rest.

h2. Backstory

Nakoma was born to the Mor'got'ha mountain clan. She distinguished herself early in the small skirmishes of her home range and soon left inter-clan squabbles behind, joining **GROWL** (Goliath Regiment Of War Leaders). There she became a respected commander in the **Combined Interspecies Battalion Against Evil Doers Army (CIBAEDA)**. Their gravest campaign was against the necromantic armies of the [[The Thaumocracy of Tellerin | Tellerites]]; on those fields she earned the name **Deathbringer**, for wherever she walked, death followed, and she led several battalions through impossible odds to victory.

*(Outsiders still speculate that the Deathwalker line descends from an ancient Deathbringer of legend. Nakoma knows the truth: she earned the name herself long before she took another.)*

Her renown placed her at **Brassmeade Bridge** when [[:nitherfang-gilfrarrin | Nitherfang Gilfrarrin]] came for her soul. The necromancer — ousted from his order for crimes most nefarious, and counted among the worst of his craft in living memory — had heard of her deeds and meant to press her into his army of the dead. The battle of Brassmeade Bridge is remembered as one of the bloodiest fights of the Wars of the Dead. Nakoma and a handful of goliath warriors held the crossing for **ten days**, turning back necromantic hosts and then their own fallen as they rose from the field. On the seventh day her oathsworn **Minara** was killed; on the tenth Nakoma faced Minara's resurrected corpse and could not bring herself to desecrate the body of the one she had sworn her life to. Instead she destroyed the bridge, letting the white waters of the Meade wash away the dead of both sides and force the necromantic army to seek another crossing.

That was not Nakoma's end. Even as the Tellerites withdrew, Nitherfang hunted down her body and bound her soul to his service as bodyguard and military adviser — a turning point for the necromantic armies. She served him for years as his executioner, drawing strength from rage at every act forced upon her until she finally broke his will, **beheaded him**, and took his **shrunken head** as a trophy. She still carries it on her belt.

The binding did not break with his death. For a time she lost herself slaughtering necromancers wherever she found them, convinced they all carried Nitherfang's evil and that was why she still walked the earth. Eventually she understood that everyone she knew was dying of age or battle while she remained, preserved like a corpse that would not lie down.

She sought out a **Deathsinger** of her people — one who tends the souls of the dead.

"Will I ever die?"
"One who is not alive cannot die. You walk the paths of the dead, but you are not one of them."

It was then she took the name **Deathwalker**. She spent many years with the **Deathsinger** who became her companion; that companionship was always shadowed by the knowledge that Deathwalker would outlast her. When the Deathsinger's time came, she confessed she had long known how Deathwalker might finally die, but had withheld it so they could remain together and so she would not have to tend Nakoma's soul before her own passing. To die, Deathwalker must bring a great evil back into the world and win the hardest battle of her life: **resurrect Nitherfang**, force him to release her soul from his spell, and destroy him again. The necromancers' code forbids raising one of their own; reputable houses would never revive the worst of their order for any price, and the death-markets offered no one with power or knowledge enough for a corpse so steeped in malice.

Emotionally betrayed and wrestling with the morality of the choice, Deathwalker wandered as a sellsword — aiding those who could pay and sometimes those who could not, depending on her mood. Starvation and the elements could not kill her; she saw kings rise and fall and even aided a rebellion or two, resigned to her fate. As magic faded across [[Arcan | Arcan]] she witnessed the decline firsthand. Then came word of [[Sindrel | Sindrel]], the last bastion of magic, and in hushed whispers, necromantic ruins within the city that might hold an answer to her eternal problem.

h2. Corvus (~4217 SC)

Fought on the **rebel** side of the uprising against the Mad King of [[World History | Corvus]] — the same battle where [[:pin | Pin]]'s Black Bloods died in the King's service. Pin does not know this unless Nakoma or someone else reveals it.
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
