---
op_id: 2ebb495cec584f188de0a87b1b16bf64
op_slug: navinea-senetera
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Navinea Senetera
title: Navinea Senetera
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/navinea-senetera
op_created_at: '2026-01-27T21:14:29Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-04T21:50:02Z'
op_gm_only: false
is_player_character: false
tags:
- House Grimbolg
- Factor
- she/her
- Genasi
avatar_url: https://db4sgowjqfwig.cloudfront.net/images/7481335/5ff2734b2cc3bb611c0b4aa073e0acd1.jpg
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
Navinea is an enormous earth genasi woman whose skin is the colour of weathered clay — brown-grey, faintly granular — with a broad-shouldered, heavyset build. Her hair is coarse and iron-grey, cropped short like bundled mineral fibre. She wears [[House Grimbolg | Grimbolg]] work dress even at council: moss-green wool and bark-brown linen in layered, reinforced panels, a leather apron stamped with green-black House knotwork, heavy boots, and work gloves — the cut of a Factor who still looks ready to walk into a waterworks failure. She presents as unhurried and contemplative, weighing every answer as though the city were a machine that might fail if given incorrect information. She speaks slowly and deliberately, blunt when she reaches a conclusion.

<!-- OP_BIO -->
[[Factor | Factor]] of [[House Grimbolg | House Grimbolg]]. [[:rossin-ros-greyhirst | Ros]]'s insight into interconnected natural systems is of particular interest; Navinea intends to organise a roundtable with Ros and senior transmuters.

She is concerned with system failure, entropy, and [[Sindrel | Sindrel]]'s resource vulnerability.

* *29th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*[1]
** Joined the [[Hexine Circle | Hexine Circle]] convened in the morning after the Anathemist leak was discovered.
** Discussed city ecology at length with [[:rossin-ros-greyhirst | Ros]] during the Wonch's house interviews immediately afterward.
* *30th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*[2]
** Wrote to [[:rossin-ros-greyhirst | Ros]] inviting her to the Amalthean to meet leading transmuters.
* *31st of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*[3]
** Hosted the Wonch at The Amalthean where she continued her discussion with Ros and explained the mechanism of D'gara's death.
** [[:pin | Pin]] noticed she assumed [[Anathemists | Anathemist]] cascade-failure sabotage without proof — an assumption, not a demonstrated fact.

h2. Spies lead

bq). "There is no point closing the stable door when the horse has already bolted. We should be focussing on increasing security around critical infrastructure in order to prevent the next attack."

<div class="op-footnotes">

fn1. [[Session 5: The Investigation Begins | Session 5: The Investigation Begins]]

fn2. [[Session 9: Downtime 2 | Session 9: Downtime 2]]

fn3. [[Session 11: Gunpowder, Treason, and Plot | Session 11: Gunpowder, Treason, and Plot]]

</div>

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->


Believes the [[Anathemists | Anathemists]] seek a cascade failure in [[Sindrel | Sindrel]]'s ecosystem — her read on motive, not confirmed fact.
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
