---
op_id: 102a0e0f4df94d19badcd6a52ac5f57a
op_slug: nielsenn
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Nielsenn
title: Nielsenn
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/nielsenn
op_created_at: '2026-02-17T22:22:10Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-05T14:29:24Z'
op_gm_only: false
is_player_character: false
tags:
- House Mabon
- he/him
- Adjutant
- Deceased
- Gnome
avatar_url: https://db4sgowjqfwig.cloudfront.net/images/7553461/images.jpeg
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
[[Adjutant | Adjutant]] of [[House Mabon | House Mabon]].

<!-- OP_BIO -->
* *8th Ostory, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*[1]
** Vaporised when one of his own trapped locks misfired during the Anathemist sabotage campaign.

<div class="op-footnotes">

fn1. [[Session 5: The Investigation Begins | Session 5: The Investigation Begins]]

</div>

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
Nielsenn was an older human with a lined face, dark eyebrows contrasting with a shock of white hair. He is a skilled craftsman, his hands moving with certainty and precision despite his age. He is missing the ring and pinkie fingers on his left hand, and has replaced them with a mechanical prosthetic.

h2. True Fate

Nielsenn was not vaporised by one of his own trapped locks. His death was staged by the [[Anathemists | Anathemist]] cell.

The conspirators identified him as a locksmith whose skills could be used to access [[:silas-oestra | Silas Oestra]]'s rooms. [[:marceline | Marceline]] helped identify and target him through servant networks and household intelligence. Nielsenn was kidnapped, held captive in The [[Quarantine Zone | Sacrum]], used during the [[Ditchquer | Ditchquer]] operation, and forced or coerced into applying his locksmith expertise alongside [[:silas-oestra | Silas Oestra]]'s stolen key.

After [[:georges-de-selve | Georges de Selve]] and [[:jean-de-dinteville | Jean de Dinteville]] finished copying and stealing material from [[:silas-oestra | Silas Oestra]]'s rooms, they took Nielsenn back to the The [[Quarantine Zone | Sacrum]] and killed him. His body lies in The Sacrum, and his spirit, trapped by the ambient necromantic magic, is nearby.
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
