---
op_id: 70f3db2e0cc14fd6a8740f0076306b80
op_slug: nort
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Nort
title: Nort
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/nort
op_created_at: '2026-06-25T19:52:14Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-05T13:10:06Z'
op_gm_only: false
is_player_character: false
tags:
- she/her
- House Lithra
- Adjutant
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
You see a tired young halfling woman with warm brown skin and a slight build, her chestnut curls loose and flattened on one side from the pillow. She wears [[The Fulcrum | Fulcrum]] service livery from the night shift: a pale marble-grey tunic and practical black trousers, the eight-pointed star embroidered discreetly at the collar — the standard dress of staff who keep the tower's machinery invisible. She presents as practical rather than alarmed — someone who has learned that strange mornings can still be survived with tea. Once awake, she speaks plainly and without flourish, recalling details in the order they happened.

<!-- OP_BIO -->
[[House Lithra | House Lithra]] [[Adjutant | Adjutant]] on [[The Fulcrum | Fulcrum]] staff — quartered in [[Sevenways | Sevenways]] and used to walking the service routes beneath the tower.

* *25th of Ostory, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Observed a lost-looking [[:arouraios | coachman]] with a neatly trimmed beard and small, fussy glasses, bringing a carriage down near the entrance service tunnels on the night of the closing ceremony. Could not name him or his dignitary; described the carriage coat of arms as something with a bird on it.
* *31st of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*[1]
** Woken by [[The Adventurers | the Wonch]]; given good tea by [[:amanira | Amanira]] and interviewed over breakfast. Shared her memory of the coachman.

<hr>
fn1. [[Session 11: Gunpowder, Treason, and Plot | Session 11: Gunpowder, Treason, and Plot]]

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
h2. Role

Key witness tying the bomb plot to servant-route access and [[:arouraios | Arouraios]]'s coachman cover. Her lead is accurate; she has no knowledge of [[Anathemists | Anathemists]] or the cell.

h2. Prep

* Rumoured connection between [[:chuggaz | Chuggaz]] and [[The Black Cats | the Black Cats]] — gossip only from her perspective; see Chuggaz's page for truth.
* Coachman / bird crest lead is her unique contribution; sends deeper corridor questions to [[:nans | Nans]].

h2. Stat block

<p><em>Non-combatant.</em> Defeated by a single adventurer if it comes to blows; she flees or talks fast.</p>

<div class="stat-block">
<h3>Nort</h3>
<p><em>Small humanoid (halfling), neutral good</em></p>
<p><strong>Armor Class</strong> 10<br>
<strong>Hit Points</strong> 4 (1d8)<br>
<strong>Speed</strong> 25 ft.<br>
<strong>Initiative</strong> +0</p>
<hr>
<table>
    <tr><th>STR</th><th>DEX</th><th>CON</th><th>INT</th><th>WIS</th><th>CHA</th></tr>
    <tr><td>8 (-1)</td><td>10 (+0)</td><td>10 (+0)</td><td>12 (+1)</td><td>14 (+2)</td><td>12 (+1)</td></tr>
</table>
<hr>
<p><strong>Skills</strong> Insight +4, Perception +4, Persuasion +3<br>
<strong>Senses</strong> passive Perception 14<br>
<strong>Languages</strong> Common, Halfling<br>
<strong>Challenge</strong> 0 (10 XP)<br>
<strong>Proficiency Bonus</strong> +2</p>
<hr>
<p><strong>Halfling Nimbleness.</strong> Nort can move through the space of any creature that is of a size larger than hers.</p>
<p><strong>Reliable Memory.</strong> Nort has advantage on Intelligence checks made to recall shift rosters, faces, or timings from the night of the closing ceremony.</p>
<p><strong>Tea and Privacy.</strong> Nort has advantage on Charisma checks during a calm interview if food or drink is shared — she opens up over breakfast, not at shouting distance.</p>
<p><strong>Non-combatant.</strong> Nort does not attack. If threatened, she yields or runs for help.</p>
<hr>
<h4>Spellcasting (Illusion)</h4>
<p>Nort is a 2nd-level spellcaster. Her spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 11). [[House Lithra | Lithra]] servant training — discretion and misdirection, not combat glamour.</p>
<p><strong>Cantrips (at will):</strong> <em>minor illusion</em></p>
<p><strong>1st level (1 slot):</strong> <em>silent image</em></p>
</div>

h3. Spell descriptions

p. *Minor illusion* (cantrip). Nort creates a faint sound or small image within 30 feet — muffling a corridor echo, masking a door knock (see PHB).

p. *Silent image* (1st level, concentration, up to 10 minutes). Nort creates an illusory screen or object within 60 feet, no larger than a 15-foot cube — privacy curtain, false "closed for cleaning" sign, etc. (see PHB).
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
