---
op_id: 3c19f65bedc54691941c6fa9030ae710
op_slug: pin
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Pin
title: Pin
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/pin
op_created_at: '2025-12-14T17:12:16Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-01T21:22:29Z'
op_gm_only: false
is_player_character: true
tags:
- he/him
avatar_url: https://db4sgowjqfwig.cloudfront.net/images/7457450/WhatsApp_Image_2026-01-11_at_12.12.06.jpeg
dndbeyond_id: '159193691'
dndbeyond_url: https://www.dndbeyond.com/characters/159193691
dndbeyond_synced_at: '2026-07-08T12:30:57Z'
---

<!-- OP_DDB_SHEET -->
<div class="ddb-sheet">
  <header class="ddb-header">
    <div class="ddb-header-main">
      <h1 class="ddb-name">Pin</h1>
      <p class="ddb-subtitle">Fighter (Battle Master) 3</p>
      <ul class="ddb-meta">
        <li><span class="ddb-label">Race</span> Human</li>
        <li><span class="ddb-label">Background</span> Soldier</li>
        <li><span class="ddb-label">Alignment</span> True Neutral</li>
        <li><span class="ddb-label">Proficiency</span> +2</li>
        <li><span class="ddb-label">Inspiration</span> No</li>
      </ul>
      <p class="ddb-links">165309 · The Lords of Sindrel</p>
    </div>
    <div class="ddb-avatar-wrap">&lt;img src=&quot;https://www.dndbeyond.com/avatars/54026/691/1581111423-159193691.jpeg?width=150&amp;amp;height=150&amp;amp;fit=crop&amp;amp;quality=95&amp;amp;auto=webp&quot; alt=&quot;&quot;&gt;</div>
  </header>

  <section class="ddb-section ddb-defenses">
    <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Defenses</h2>
    <div class="ddb-pill-grid">
      <div class="ddb-pill"><span class="ddb-pill-label">AC</span><span class="ddb-pill-value">13</span></div>
      <div class="ddb-pill ddb-pill-wide">
        <span class="ddb-pill-label">HP</span>
        <span class="ddb-pill-value">22</span>
        <span class="ddb-pill-sep">/</span>
        <span class="ddb-pill-value">22</span>
      </div>
      <div class="ddb-pill"><span class="ddb-pill-label">Temp</span><span class="ddb-pill-value">0</span></div>
      <div class="ddb-pill"><span class="ddb-pill-label">Speed</span><span class="ddb-pill-value">30 ft.</span></div>
      <div class="ddb-pill"><span class="ddb-pill-label">Init</span><span class="ddb-pill-value">+2</span></div>
      <div class="ddb-pill"><span class="ddb-pill-label">Hit Dice</span><span class="ddb-pill-value"></span></div>
    </div>
  </section>

  <div class="ddb-columns">
    <section class="ddb-section">
      <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Abilities</h2>
      <div class="ddb-ability-grid">
        <div class="ddb-ability"><span class="ddb-ability-label">STR</span><span class="ddb-ability-value">16 (+3)</span></div>
        <div class="ddb-ability"><span class="ddb-ability-label">DEX</span><span class="ddb-ability-value">14 (+2)</span></div>
        <div class="ddb-ability"><span class="ddb-ability-label">CON</span><span class="ddb-ability-value">15 (+2)</span></div>
        <div class="ddb-ability"><span class="ddb-ability-label">INT</span><span class="ddb-ability-value">9 (-1)</span></div>
        <div class="ddb-ability"><span class="ddb-ability-label">WIS</span><span class="ddb-ability-value">13 (+1)</span></div>
        <div class="ddb-ability"><span class="ddb-ability-label">CHA</span><span class="ddb-ability-value">11 (+0)</span></div>
      </div>
      <h3 class="ddb-subsection-title">Saving Throws</h3>
      <div class="ddb-block">STR +3<br>
DEX +2<br>
CON +2<br>
INT -1<br>
WIS +1<br>
CHA +0</div>
    </section>

    <section class="ddb-section">
      <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Skills &amp; Senses</h2>
      <div class="ddb-block">Athletics +5 *<br>
Intimidation +2 *<br>
Perception +3 *<br>
Survival +3 *</div>
      <div class="ddb-sense-row">
        <div><span class="ddb-sense-label">Passive Perception</span><span class="ddb-sense-value">13</span></div>
        <div><span class="ddb-sense-label">Passive Investigation</span><span class="ddb-sense-value">9</span></div>
        <div><span class="ddb-sense-label">Passive Insight</span><span class="ddb-sense-value">11</span></div>
      </div>
    </section>
  </div>

  <section class="ddb-section">
    <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Actions</h2>
    <div class="ddb-block">Longsword. +5 to hit, range 5 ft., 1d8 slashing<br>
Handaxe. +5 to hit, range 20 ft., 1d6 slashing<br>
Longbow. +5 to hit, range 150 ft., 1d8 piercing<br>
Second Wind. Once per short rest, you can use a bonus action to regain 1d10 + HP.<br>
Action Surge. You can take one additional action on your turn. This can be used times per short rest.<br>
Superiority Dice. You learn maneuvers that are fueled by superiority dice. Maneuvers enhance an attack in some way. You have superiority dice per short rest.<br>
Fighting Style: Protection. While wielding a shield and a creature you can see attacks a target other than you within 5 ft., you can use your reaction to impose disadvantage on the attack roll.<br>
Maneuvers: Commander’s Strike. When you take the Attack action on your turn, you can forgo one of your attacks and use a bonus action to direct an ally that can see or hear you to strike using its reaction, adding the superiority die to the damage roll.<br>
Maneuvers: Parry. When another creature damages you with a melee attack, you can use your reaction and expend one superiority die to reduce the damage by the number you roll on your superiority die .<br>
Maneuvers: Riposte. When a creature misses you with a melee attack, you can use your reaction and expend one superiority die to make a melee weapon attack against it (add the superiority die to the attack’s damage roll on hit).</div>
  </section>

  <section class="ddb-section">
    <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Limited Use</h2>
    <div class="ddb-block">Second Wind (1/short rest). Once per short rest, you can use a bonus action to regain 1d10 + HP.<br>
Action Surge (1/short rest). You can take one additional action on your turn. This can be used times per short rest.<br>
Superiority Dice (4/short rest). You learn maneuvers that are fueled by superiority dice. Maneuvers enhance an attack in some way. You have superiority dice per short rest.</div>
  </section>

  <section class="ddb-section">
    <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Features &amp; Traits</h2>
    <div class="ddb-block">Languages. You can speak, read, and write Common and one extra language.<br>
Ability Score Increase. Your ability scores each increase by 1.<br>
Age. Humans reach adulthood in their late teens and live less than a century.<br>
Size. Humans vary widely in height and build, from barely 5 feet to well over 6 feet tall. Regardless of your position in that range, your size is Medium.<br>
Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet.<br>
Combat Superiority. You learn maneuvers that are fueled by superiority dice. Maneuvers enhance an attack in some way. You have superiority dice per short rest.<br>
Student of War. You gain proficiency with one type of artisan’s tools.<br>
Maneuvers. The maneuvers are presented in alphabetical order.<br>
Fighting Style. You adopt a fighting style specialty.<br>
Second Wind. Once per short rest, you can use a bonus action to regain 1d10 + HP.<br>
Action Surge. You can take one additional action on your turn. This can be used times per short rest.<br>
Martial Archetype. At 3rd level, you choose an archetype that you strive to emulate in your combat styles and techniques. Choose Champion, Battle Master, or Eldritch Knight, all detailed at the end of the class description. The archetype you choose grants you features at 3rd level and again at 7th, 10th, 15th, and 18th level.<br>
Proficiencies. Armor: All armor, shields Weapons: Simple weapons, martial weapons Tools: None Saving Throws: Strength, Constitution Skills: Choose two skills from Acrobatics, Animal Handling, Athletics, History, Insight, Intimidation, Perception, and Survival<br>
Hit Points. Hit Dice: 1d10 per fighter level Hit Points at 1st Level: 10 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d10 (or 6) + your Constitution modifier per fighter level after 1st<br>
Equipment. You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background: (a) chain mail or (b) leather armor, longbow, and 20 arrows (a) a martial weapon and a shield or (b) two martial weapons (a) a light crossbow and 20 bolts or (b) two handaxes (a) a dungeoneer’s pack or (b) an explorer’s pack<br>
Hero&#x27;s Journey Boon. At your GM&#x27;s discretion you have been granted a Hero&#x27;s Journey Boon.<br>
Dark Bargain. At your GM&#x27;s discretion, you have taken a Dark Bargain.</div>
  </section>

  <section class="ddb-section">
    <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Proficiencies &amp; Training</h2>
    <div class="ddb-kv"><span class="ddb-label">Proficiencies</span><span class="ddb-kv-value">Heavy Armor, Light Armor, Medium Armor, Shields; Martial Weapons, Simple Weapons; Cook&#x27;s Utensils, Playing Card Set, Shields, Vehicles (Land)</span></div>
    <div class="ddb-kv"><span class="ddb-label">Languages</span><span class="ddb-kv-value">Common, Dwarvish</span></div>
    <div class="ddb-kv"><span class="ddb-label">Tools</span><span class="ddb-kv-value">—</span></div>
  </section>

  <section class="ddb-section">
    <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Inventory</h2>
    <div class="ddb-block">Shield<br>
Leather<br>
Longsword<br>
Handaxe<br>
Handaxe<br>
Longbow<br>
Arrows x19<br>
Backpack<br>
Clothes, Common<br>
Playing Card Set<br>
Bedroll<br>
Mess Kit<br>
Rations (1 day) x10<br>
Rope, Hempen (50 feet)<br>
Tinderbox<br>
Torch x10<br>
Waterskin<br>
10 gp</div>
  </section>

  <section class="ddb-section">
    <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Spellcasting</h2>
    <div class="ddb-spell-header">
      <div><span class="ddb-label">Ability</span> int</div>
      <div><span class="ddb-label">Save DC</span> </div>
      <div><span class="ddb-label">Attack</span> </div>
    </div>
    <h3 class="ddb-subsection-title">Spell Slots</h3>
    <div class="ddb-block">—</div>
    <h3 class="ddb-subsection-title">Spells Prepared / Known</h3>
    <div class="ddb-block">—</div>
  </section>

  <footer class="ddb-footer">
    <p class="ddb-sync"><span class="ddb-label">D&amp;D Beyond sync</span> 2026-07-08 12:30 UTC</p>
    <p class="ddb-disclaimer">Unofficial fan layout inspired by digital character sheet sections. Not affiliated with Wizards of the Coast or D&amp;D Beyond.</p>
  </footer>
</div>

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
A slim young man of about 5'9" — fair-skinned, brown-haired, green-eyed, wiry at a hundred and forty-five pounds. He carries himself with a soldier's quiet economy; watchful, hard to read. A young warrior seeking community, purpose and answers: does his sword hold the spirit of his dead friend, or is he losing his mind?

h3. Key Items

* [[Hesh | Hesh]]
* [[Silver Guest Bracelet | Silver Guest Bracelet]]

<!-- OP_BIO -->
* *Alignment:* Neutral
* *Personality:* Values stoicism; wary of intelligence.
* *Ideal:* To find a place within a community again.
* *Bond:* Believes the spirit of his dead friend lives in his longsword [[Hesh | Hesh]] — the blade that took Essen's life.
* *Flaw:* Will stand up for those weaker than him, no matter the risk or need.

Sold into slavery before he’d even learned to speak, the boy was in his early teens before knowing the warmth of family and kinship. On the run after lashing out and killing his master, he stole away with a band of mercenaries, the Black Bloods, and was soon enamoured with their life of battle, bloodshed, gambling and carousing. They gave him a name, his first: Pin, so called for his keen wit and tactical mind, hidden beneath a slim stature and quiet demeanour.

In an ever deepening quest for power and coin, their charismatic leader, Killig, pushed his men down dark and dangerous paths. The group splintered when he sold their skills to the **Mad King of [[World History | Corvus]]** (~**4217 SC**) — a northern city-state broken from [[The Magedom of Houd | Houd]] after the Seven Day War — who tasked them with quelling a rebel uprising. Despite misgivings, Pin owed everything to Killig, and he and his close friend Essen made a blood oath to stay until the bitter end.

That end came soon enough on the field of battle.

Pin awoke beneath a mound of corpses, those of his friends and comrades. Pulling himself from the burial pit, he gulped fresh air as his gaze settled on a pair of familiar eyes. Essen stared back, their head mounted on a stave, one of hundreds lining the battlefield.

Consumed with despair, Pin wandered in a daze, ignored by the corpse-looters, until he came upon a sword. Hesh, Essen’s blade. Pin took the weapon, a final gift from the family that lay in ruins around him. But as he lifted it, a vision raced through his mind: Hesh, wielded by a giant of a person, their features obscured in the shadow of memory, brought the weapon down on Essen’s neck.

“It stung,” a familiar voice hissed from the sword, “But only for a moment.”

Essen.

The sword continued to speak in low whispers, snatches and fragments here and there over the coming weeks, audible only to Pin. At times it was a comfort. But a dangerous one, for sorcery of any kind was to be feared. Perhaps he was going mad.

Seeking answers, though unsure if he could bring himself to ask the necessary questions, Pin set out for [[Sindrel | Sindrel]], the city of magic.

h4. Recent Events

* *28th Enean 4218 [[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]]* - During downtime in [[Sindrel | Sindrel]], asked magical shops about the [[The Fallowhurst Sigil | Fallowhurst sigil]] seen at [[Fallowhurst College | Fallowhurst College]]; could not reproduce it from memory. Later drank with [[:hielaman | Captain Hielaman]]; woke with a black eye after a [[Ditchquer | Ditchquer]] argument.

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
Pin is **22** in **4218 SC**. The battle at **Corvus** (~**4217 SC**) fell when he was **~21** — the year before the campaign.

h3. The sword

Carries a plain longsword with old, careful maintenance - a soldier's blade, not a noble's showpiece. The guard bears worn knotwork that might be [[House Meness | Meness]] law-runes if you know what to look for.

Pin's longsword is a **misplaced Meness archive piece** — see [[Hesh | Hesh]].

* **Origin:** An adjutant officer's sidearm from the first century of [[Sindrel | Sindrel]] - commissioned when [[House Meness | House Meness]] still lent witness-weapons to the [[Osteomantic Archives | Osteomantic Archives]] for the *Hall of the First Watch* (founding-era law officers and garrison dead). Catalogue mark filed under Meness, not Samhain.
* **How Pin has it:** Left circulation centuries ago (battlefield recovery, lost-property chit never closed, or a contractor "temporary loan" that outlived everyone who signed). Pin acquired it **before the campaign** - treat as player backstory unless you establish otherwise in play.
* **Why the Archives care:** Caretakers still maintain the First Watch roster. The blade is **checked out without return**. They will attempt to recover it politely before they attempt violence.
* **Magic (depowered):** The sword was **abjuratively enchanted** - a Meness pattern that turned aside the first harm each day and remembered the force that struck it (a crude echo of founder-tier adaptation). A millennium outside [[Sindrel | Sindrel]]'s density, and decades more in the mundane world, has **drained it to mundane steel**. Pin may feel it is *almost* right - balance, temper - without knowing why.

h4. Repowering (future thread)

Restoration needs **Sindrel-scale magic** plus **knowledge of the original inscription** (Panopticon records, Alicia's displayed adventuring arms, or a caretaker's catalogue rubbings). Possible collaborators: [[:hielaman | Hielaman]] (Meness procedure), [[:kelferria-the-smith | Kelferria]] (metalwork channel), archive caretaker (correct shelf blessing).

When repowered, aim for a **single clear benefit** - e.g. once per long rest, reduce damage from one weapon hit by a die step, or on first hit taken in combat gain resistance to that damage type until end of next turn (Meness "learns the blow"). Do not mirror [[:general-alicia-meness | Alicia]]'s full adaptation.

Soul-trap impressions (confirmed / possible / ruled out): see [[Hesh | Hesh]] GM *Impression log*.

h4. Distinction - Fallowhurst sigil

The [[The Fallowhurst Sigil | Fallowhurst sigil]] is **unrelated** to the sword. Session 4 shop visits were about the binding circle from [[Fallowhurst College | Fallowhurst College]], not blade markings.
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
