---
op_id: 000ab2d4ade64971a47d72bbdb8c265d
op_slug: pthul
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Pthul
title: Pthul
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/pthul
op_created_at: '2025-12-09T19:59:43Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-05T09:29:14Z'
op_gm_only: false
is_player_character: false
tags:
- he/him
- Human
avatar_url: https://db4sgowjqfwig.cloudfront.net/images/7433932/127682.jpg
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
Pthul is a large, heavily built man. Stern, serious, and stoic to the point of being almost monosyllabic, he is often perceived as standoffish. His habitual dark clothing and ever present sword do little to assuage this appearance. In reality he is simply mentally categorising everything around him by threat level.

Pthul is utterly devoted to his charge, [[:dulcinia-von-phthasia | Dulcinia von Phthasia]].

<!-- OP_BIO -->
* *10th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Accompanied [[:dulcinia-von-phthasia | Dulcinia]] departing the von Phthasia estate in [[Soulwind | Soulwind]] for [[Sindrel | Sindrel]] to seek a magical cure for her ailment; progress slow due to her ill health and the gold and jewels they transported.
* *24th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*[1]
** Fought alongside a ragtag group of adventurers to subdue the [[:gillette-quill | Quill]] [[:raymond-quill | brothers]]; at his mistress's insistence, grudgingly allowed his new allies to share their table for the evening.
* *25th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** His coach with Dulcinia was ambushed by [[Anathemists | Anathemists]].[1]
** Broke his arm when the coach went over the cliff; offered the adventurers 100 GP up front to escort Dulcinia, their luggage, and the gold to [[Sindrel | Sindrel]]; continued with the party through flooded [[Fallowhurst | Fallowhurst]] and [[Fallowhurst College | Fallowhurst College]].[2]
* *26th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Traveled with the party from the [[Fallowhurst Outpost | Fallowhurst Outpost]] to [[Sindrel | Sindrel]].[3]
** Parted company with the Adventurers after their arrival in the city (afternoon); made for [[The Pointed Hat | The Pointed Hat]].[4]

<div class="op-footnotes">

fn1. [[Session 1: The White Dragon | Session 1: The White Dragon]]

fn2. [[Session 2: Fallowhurst | Session 2: Fallowhurst]]

fn3. [[Session 3: "Graduation" | Session 3: "Graduation"]]

fn4. [[Session 4: Sindrel! | Session 4: Sindrel!]]

</div>

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
<div class="stat-block">
<h3>Pthul</h3>
<p><em>Medium human, lawful neutral</em></p>
<p><strong>Armor Class</strong> 18 (plate)<br>
<strong>Hit Points</strong> 52 (8d8 + 16)<br>
<strong>Speed</strong> 30 ft.<br>
<strong>Initiative</strong> +0</p>
<hr>
<table>
    <tr><th>STR</th><th>DEX</th><th>CON</th><th>INT</th><th>WIS</th><th>CHA</th></tr>
    <tr><td>16 (+3)</td><td>11 (+0)</td><td>14 (+2)</td><td>11 (+0)</td><td>11 (+0)</td><td>15 (+2)</td></tr>
</table>
<hr>
<p><strong>Saving Throws</strong> CON +4, WIS +2<br>
<strong>Senses</strong> passive Perception 10<br>
<strong>Languages</strong> Common<br>
<strong>Challenge</strong> 3 (700 XP)<br>
<strong>Proficiency Bonus</strong> +2</p>
<hr>
<p><strong>Brave.</strong> Pthul has advantage on saving throws against being frightened.</p>
<hr>
<h4>Actions</h4>
<p><strong>Multiattack.</strong> Pthul makes two melee attacks.</p>
<p><strong>Greatsword.</strong> <em>Melee Weapon Attack:</em> +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. <em>Hit:</em> 10 (2d6 + 3) slashing damage.</p>
<p><strong>Heavy Crossbow.</strong> <em>Ranged Weapon Attack:</em> +2 to hit, range 100/400 ft., one target. <em>Hit:</em> 5 (1d10) piercing damage.</p>
<p><strong>Leadership (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest).</strong> For 1 minute, Pthul can utter a special command or warning whenever a nonhostile creature that it can see within 30 feet of it makes an attack roll or a saving throw. The creature can add a d4 to its roll provided it can hear and understand him. A creature can benefit from only one Leadership die at a time. This effect ends if Pthul is incapacitated.</p>
</div>
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
