---
op_id: f393390121d346dc9be6ef37805492f0
op_slug: raymond-quill
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Raymond Quill
title: Raymond Quill
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/raymond-quill
op_created_at: '2025-12-09T19:50:28Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-01T17:07:46Z'
op_gm_only: false
is_player_character: false
tags:
- he/him
avatar_url: https://db4sgowjqfwig.cloudfront.net/images/7433944/516db71a9a089cbb40109ce80dfa0971.jpg
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
Large, burly, and a complete bastard

<!-- OP_BIO -->
* *4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Along with his brother [[:gillette-quill | Gillette]], spends most of the year carrying out petty thefts targeting travellers up and down [[The Mage Road | The Mage Road]].
* *24th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*[1]
** Interrupted by [[:wilrin-racenglade | Wilrin Ravenglade]] while plotting to rob patrons of [[The White Dragon Coaching Inn | The White Dragon Coaching Inn]]; incapacitated by [[The Adventurers | the Adventurers]].
** That evening, guarded by [[:nakoma-deathwalker-mor-got-ha | Nakoma Deathwalker Mor'got'ha]] and [[:silrie-aegiskiir | Silrie Aegiskiir]], the latter of whom attempted to teach him the basics of meditation.
* *25th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Traveled with [[The Adventurers | the Adventurers]] on the [[Sindrel Coach | coach]], trying to pass on what he had learned of meditation to Gillette; remained pinned down during the [[Anathemists | Anathemist]] ambush, unwilling to risk the archers above.[1]
** Survived the coach going over the cliff and continued with the party through flooded [[Fallowhurst | Fallowhurst]] and [[Fallowhurst College | Fallowhurst College]].[2]
* *26th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Traveled with the party from the [[Fallowhurst Outpost | Fallowhurst Outpost]] to [[Sindrel | Sindrel]].[3]
** Parted company with the Adventurers after their arrival in the city (afternoon).[4]
* *31st of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** According to [[:gillette-quill | Gillette]], the brothers' attempted meditation-retreat business failed to attract investors, leaving them doing odd jobs for [[The Black Cats | the Black Cats]] while still talking hopefully about inner peace.[5]

<hr>
fn1. [[Session 1: The White Dragon | Session 1: The White Dragon]]

fn2. [[Session 2: Fallowhurst | Session 2: Fallowhurst]]

fn3. [[Session 3: "Graduation" | Session 3: "Graduation"]]

fn4. [[Session 4: Sindrel! | Session 4: Sindrel!]]

fn5. [[Session 12: No Questions, Some Answers | Session 12: No Questions, Some Answers]]

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
The strong brother — large, burly, and brutal. Fights beside [[:gillette-quill | Gillette]].

<div class="stat-block">
<h3>Raymond Quill</h3>
<p><em>Medium human, neutral evil</em></p>
<p><strong>Armor Class</strong> 14 (hide, shield)<br>
<strong>Hit Points</strong> 32 (5d8 + 10)<br>
<strong>Speed</strong> 30 ft.<br>
<strong>Initiative</strong> +0</p>
<hr>
<table>
    <tr><th>STR</th><th>DEX</th><th>CON</th><th>INT</th><th>WIS</th><th>CHA</th></tr>
    <tr><td>16 (+3)</td><td>10 (+0)</td><td>16 (+3)</td><td>9 (-1)</td><td>10 (+0)</td><td>11 (+0)</td></tr>
</table>
<hr>
<p><strong>Skills</strong> Athletics +5, Intimidation +2<br>
<strong>Senses</strong> passive Perception 10<br>
<strong>Languages</strong> Common<br>
<strong>Challenge</strong> 1 (200 XP)<br>
<strong>Proficiency Bonus</strong> +2</p>
<hr>
<p><strong>Brute.</strong> A melee weapon deals one extra die of its damage when Raymond hits with it (included below).</p>
<p><strong>Brothers' Grift.</strong> While Raymond and [[:gillette-quill | Gillette Quill]] are within 30 feet of each other and can see each other, each has advantage on attack rolls against a creature if the other brother is within 5 feet of that creature and isn't incapacitated.</p>
<hr>
<h4>Actions</h4>
<p><strong>Multiattack.</strong> Raymond makes two warhammer attacks.</p>
<p><strong>Warhammer.</strong> <em>Melee Weapon Attack:</em> +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. <em>Hit:</em> 12 (2d8 + 3) bludgeoning damage.</p>
<p><strong>Shove.</strong> Raymond can shove a creature within 5 feet (Athletics +5 vs. target's Athletics or Acrobatics). On a success, he pushes the target up to 10 feet or knocks it prone.</p>
</div>

| Composition | Adjusted XP |
|---|---|
| 1 **Gillette** + 1 **Raymond** | 600 |

*Pair at level 3 (seven PCs): easy (1,400 threshold). With pack tactics they punch above weight in a brawl.*
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
