---
op_id: fb7afdff854544d5a53af88202ee65c9
op_slug: regnif-d-log
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Regnif d'Log
title: Regnif d'Log
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/regnif-d-log
op_created_at: '2026-02-13T21:45:46Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-01T11:04:07Z'
op_gm_only: true
is_player_character: false
tags:
- he/him
- Human
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->


<!-- OP_BIO -->


<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
h2. Goldfinger

**Regnif d'Log** is **Goldfinger** in disguise — the name [[:ayr | Ayr]] knew in his thief years as **Baron von Goldfinger**, backed by **GF & Sons Trust**. The Ambassador Street household and foreign-noble cover are how Goldfinger operates when he needs respectability; the man is the same.

Goldfinger is not an innocent abroad. He is a wealthy fixer who moves money through trusts and fronts, commissions theft, and buys distance from consequences. In the [[Anathemists | Anathemist]] cell he is still a **patsy** for [[:marceline | Marceline]] — not the spy plot's mastermind — but his criminal history predates Marceline by years.

h2. Role in [[:ayr | Ayr]]'s backstory

* **Eviction:** Ayr's family lost their home when they failed payments to **GF & Sons Trust** — Goldfinger's lending arm. That pushed them into the underground underworld where Ayr learned to steal.
* **Prior thefts:** Ayr had robbed von Goldfinger of trinkets, coin, and the kit for a **false persona** — clothing, handwriting samples, and genuine documents later altered for forged names — plus the Baron's **signet ring**. *(GM: ring may be a hidden key to something in Goldfinger's holdings; not confirmed in play.)*
* **The mimic job:** Goldfinger's **fake commission** lured **seven** of Ayr's crew into a vault mimic trap (chest type). Swyfgrin fought it while wounded; others fell; survivors **pushed Ayr out** and the door **sealed**. Ayr alone escaped; **the rest died in the vault** (player-facing). He lost his natural eye on the job; wears a self-built **green glass eye** (see [[:ayr | Ayr]]). He blames his own mistake as much as Goldfinger's malice.
* **What Ayr knows:** the name Goldfinger / von Goldfinger, GF & Sons, mimic-hunter cover story rooted in real hatred of mimics, and his guilt. **What he does not know (through Session 11):** that Goldfinger is in [[Sindrel | Sindrel]] as Regnif d'Log, or that the Wonch investigation is closing on that household.
* **If they meet:** recognition should be visceral — voice, manner, or a tell Ayr's player supplies — before the name lands. The investigation thread on **recent wealthy arrivals** ([[The Adventurers | the-adventurers]] mapping) is Ayr's personal stake in the same lead that exposes Marceline and the cell.

Do not reveal the link until the party has a fair shot at d'Log's name or face from investigation; Ayr's thief past remains party-secret until he chooses otherwise.

h2. Heraldry

Foreign-noble cover on Ambassador Street — ostentatious, more achievement than the house strictly merits. **Sun Roc** (fantasy bird; roc-scale, impossibly grand) as the main charge. Gold references are deliberate (Goldfinger / GF & Sons) but never explained in-player. The **voided ring**, **escutcheon of pretence**, **crossed keys**, and **hooded falcon** are deliberate spy/liar symbolism — legible to heraldry-literate NPCs, not explained in play.

The d'Log identity is both disguise and advertisement - to anyone literate in the language of heraldry, he's openly proclaiming his willingness to do shady deals.

h3. Arms

*Formal blazon:* Quarterly, 1st and 4th Sable semé of bezants; 2nd and 3rd Or; overall a Sun Roc displayed, the body Argent, wings elevated and addorsed, every primary feather tipped Or, beaked and membered Or, langued Gules, grasping in the dexter talon a signet ring voided Or; overall an escutcheon of pretence Argent charged with two keys in saltire Gules.

*Plain English:* Quartered shield — **black** fields strewn with gold coins (*bezants*), alternating with plain **gold** quarters (wealth in shadow, wealth on display). Over the whole, a Sun Roc with wings spread: white body grading to gold-tipped feathers, gold beak and talons, red tongue, clutching a **pierced / hollow signet ring** (heraldic *voided* — looks damaged; reads as *not genuine* to the trained eye). Over the centre, a smaller **escutcheon of pretence** (claimed identity laid over the house arms) in white, bearing **two crossed red keys**.

h3. Achievement

* *Supporters:* Two amphipteres erect, wings elevated Argent semé of bezants, bodies Vert, each gorged with a chain of bezants Or.
* *Motto:* *In Manibus Aureis* — "In Golden Hands" (fake Cosmian Latin). On-the-nose for Goldfinger / GF & Sons: everything passes through paid hands; also reads as *held by wealth* or *at gold's disposal*. d'Log would quote it with unearned solemnity.

h3. In play

* Full achievement on the Ambassador Street townhouse doors and stationery.
* Coach panels and livery often show a simplified version: Sun Roc on Sable only — readable at distance (matches [[:nort | Nort]]'s "bird crest" memory without naming d'Log); escutcheon and voided ring omitted at small scale.
* [[:arouraios | Arouraios]]'s coachman disguise uses this livery; the Black Cats nicknamed [[:marceline | Marceline]] *the Snake* partly from foreign clothes bearing the out-of-town crest.

h2. Role in the Anathemist Plot

Regnif d'Log is the spy cell's patsy. He entered [[Sindrel | Sindrel]] with his servants, [[:arouraios | Arouraios]] and [[:marceline | Marceline]], while [[:georges-de-selve | Georges de Selve]] and [[:jean-de-dinteville | Jean de Dinteville]] entered separately under merchant cover. d'Log is not the mastermind; [[:marceline | Marceline]] is the de-facto cell lead. d'Log's usefulness lies in his respectability, his money, and his carelessness.

d'Log's household gives [[:marceline | Marceline]] and Arouraios a reason to be in [[Sindrel | Sindrel]]. It gives them rooms, errands, appointments, servants' access, household accounts, and a plausible reason to conduct business with local specialists. When Marceline deals with [[:kelferria-the-smith | Kelferria]] for enchanted armour, she does so while supposedly acting as d'Log's agent. This ties the transaction to a plausible wealthy patron rather than to the [[Anathemists | Anathemist]] cell itself.

In the sabotage campaign before the [[Ditchquer | Ditchquer]] closing ceremony, d'Log unknowingly provided cover for purchases, meetings, and movements. He authorised, signed, or failed to question arrangements made by [[:marceline | Marceline]]. He paid for unusually large quantities of charcoal under the impression that his lodgings were cold or poorly heated.

d'Log may possess documents, receipts, orders, or correspondence that incriminate his household while also showing his ignorance. He is useful to the conspiracy precisely because he leaves a paper trail that points at him before it points at [[:marceline | Marceline]].

During and after the [[Ditchquer | Ditchquer]] operation, d'Log's most important contribution is passive: his retinue remains a respectable shield. [[:marceline | Marceline]] is permitted to stay in [[Sindrel | Sindrel]] as part of d'Log's household until her master's business is concluded, leaving an Anathemist agent embedded in the city even after Georges and Jean depart.

h3. Investigative footprint

Evidence around d'Log should initially look damning but become less conclusive under pressure. His accounts, letters, and authorisations may connect him to armour, charcoal, and suspicious appointments, but his ignorance should be visible in the details. He may be vain, negligent, foolish, compromised, or easily managed, but he is not the operational leader.
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
