---
op_id: 2460ccd9ff50422286d81cbfc2483262
op_slug: rossin-ros-greyhirst
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Rossin "Ros" Greyhirst
title: Rossin "Ros" Greyhirst
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/rossin-ros-greyhirst
op_created_at: '2025-12-14T17:10:38Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-08T16:09:11Z'
op_gm_only: false
is_player_character: true
tags:
- she/her
avatar_url: https://db4sgowjqfwig.cloudfront.net/images/7457462/WhatsApp_Image_2026-01-10_at_17.14.42.jpeg
dndbeyond_id: '159196960'
dndbeyond_url: https://www.dndbeyond.com/characters/159196960
dndbeyond_synced_at: '2026-07-09T16:06:10Z'
dynamic_sheet:
  name: Rossin (Ros) Greyhirst
  class_summary: Ranger (Beast Master) 3
  prof_bonus: '+2'
  player_campaign: cjchandler · The Lords of Sindrel
  avatar_url: https://www.dndbeyond.com/avatars/54027/930/1581111423-159196960.jpeg?width=150&height=150&fit=crop&quality=95&auto=webp
  ac: '13'
  hp_current: '16'
  hp_max: '16'
  speed: 30 ft.
  initiative: '+2'
  hit_dice: ''
  str: 8 (-1)
  dex: 15 (+2)
  con: 14 (+2)
  int: 12 (+1)
  wis: 15 (+2)
  cha: 12 (+1)
  str_save: +1 *
  dex_save: +4 *
  con_save: '+2'
  int_save: '+1'
  wis_save: '+2'
  cha_save: '+1'
  skills: 'STR

    Athletics +1 *


    DEX

    Acrobatics +2

    Sleight Of Hand +2

    Stealth +4 *


    INT

    Arcana +1

    History +1

    Investigation +1

    Nature +3 *

    Religion +1


    WIS

    Animal Handling +4 *

    Insight +4 *

    Medicine +4 *

    Perception +2

    Survival +4 *


    CHA

    Deception +1

    Intimidation +1

    Performance +1

    Persuasion +1'
  ability_blocks_json: '[{"key": "str", "label": "Strength", "score": 8, "modifier":
    "-1", "save": {"bonus": "+1", "proficient": true}, "skills": [{"name": "Athletics",
    "bonus": "+1", "proficient": true, "expertise": false}]}, {"key": "dex", "label":
    "Dexterity", "score": 15, "modifier": "+2", "save": {"bonus": "+4", "proficient":
    true}, "skills": [{"name": "Acrobatics", "bonus": "+2", "proficient": false, "expertise":
    false}, {"name": "Sleight Of Hand", "bonus": "+2", "proficient": false, "expertise":
    false}, {"name": "Stealth", "bonus": "+4", "proficient": true, "expertise": false}]},
    {"key": "con", "label": "Constitution", "score": 14, "modifier": "+2", "save":
    {"bonus": "+2", "proficient": false}, "skills": []}, {"key": "int", "label": "Intelligence",
    "score": 12, "modifier": "+1", "save": {"bonus": "+1", "proficient": false}, "skills":
    [{"name": "Arcana", "bonus": "+1", "proficient": false, "expertise": false}, {"name":
    "History", "bonus": "+1", "proficient": false, "expertise": false}, {"name": "Investigation",
    "bonus": "+1", "proficient": false, "expertise": false}, {"name": "Nature", "bonus":
    "+3", "proficient": true, "expertise": false}, {"name": "Religion", "bonus": "+1",
    "proficient": false, "expertise": false}]}, {"key": "wis", "label": "Wisdom",
    "score": 15, "modifier": "+2", "save": {"bonus": "+2", "proficient": false}, "skills":
    [{"name": "Animal Handling", "bonus": "+4", "proficient": true, "expertise": false},
    {"name": "Insight", "bonus": "+4", "proficient": true, "expertise": false}, {"name":
    "Medicine", "bonus": "+4", "proficient": true, "expertise": false}, {"name": "Perception",
    "bonus": "+2", "proficient": false, "expertise": false}, {"name": "Survival",
    "bonus": "+4", "proficient": true, "expertise": false}]}, {"key": "cha", "label":
    "Charisma", "score": 12, "modifier": "+1", "save": {"bonus": "+1", "proficient":
    false}, "skills": [{"name": "Deception", "bonus": "+1", "proficient": false, "expertise":
    false}, {"name": "Intimidation", "bonus": "+1", "proficient": false, "expertise":
    false}, {"name": "Performance", "bonus": "+1", "proficient": false, "expertise":
    false}, {"name": "Persuasion", "bonus": "+1", "proficient": false, "expertise":
    false}]}]'
  passive_perception: '12'
  passive_investigation: '11'
  passive_insight: '14'
  inspiration: 'No'
  temp_hp: '0'
  conditions: ''
  death_saves: ''
  limited_use: ''
  actions: 'Handaxe. +1 to hit, range 20 ft., 1d6 slashing

    Quarterstaff. +1 to hit, range 5 ft., 1d6 bludgeoning

    Longbow. +1 to hit, range 150 ft., 1d8 piercing

    Primeval Awareness. As an action, you can expend one ranger spell slot (1 minute
    per level of spell slot) to sense whether any aberrations, celestials, dragons,
    elementals, fey, fiends, or undead are present within 1 mile of you (or within
    up to 6 miles if you are in your favored terrain). This feature doesn’t reveal
    the creatures’ location or number.

    Favored Foe. When you hit a creature with an attack roll, you can mark the target
    as your favored enemy for 1 minute or until you lose your concentration (as if
    you were concentrating on a spell). The first time on each of your turns that
    you hit the favored enemy and deal damage to it, including when you mark it, you
    can increase that damage by .'
  bonus_actions: ''
  reactions: ''
  proficiencies: Light Armor, Medium Armor, Shields; Martial Weapons, Simple Weapons;
    Pan Flute, Shields
  languages: Choose a Language, Common, Common Sign Language, Elvish, Halfling, Sylvan
  tools: —
  ddb_last_sync: 2026-07-09 16:06 UTC
  spellcasting_ability: wis
  spell_save_dc: '12'
  spell_attack: '+4'
  spell_slots: 1st 0/3
  spell_slots_json: '[{"level": 1, "label": "1st", "max": 3}]'
  spell_slots_used_json: '{"1": 3}'
  spells_prepared: 'Level 1: Speak with Animals'
  spells_json: '[{"name": "Speak with Animals", "level": 1, "level_label": "1st",
    "school": "divination", "concentration": false, "ritual": true, "casting_time":
    "1 action", "range": "Self", "hit_dc": "—", "components": "V, S", "duration":
    "10 minutes", "body": "You gain the ability to comprehend and verbally communicate
    with beasts for the duration. The knowledge and awareness of many beasts is limited
    by their intelligence, but at minimum, beasts can give you information about nearby
    locations and monsters, including whatever they can perceive or have perceived
    within the past day. You might be able to persuade a beast to perform a small
    favor for you, at the GM''s discretion."}]'
dynamic_sheet_template_id: 38274b74909343e1a3e95400091308c3
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
h3. Giant Stoat

<div class="stat-block">
<h3>Tama</h3>
<p><em>Medium beast, unaligned</em></p>
<p><strong>Armor Class</strong> 13<br>
<strong>Hit Points</strong> 13 (2d8 + 4)<br>
<strong>Speed</strong> 40 ft.<br>
<strong>Initiative</strong> +3</p>
<hr>
<table>
    <tr><th>STR</th><th>DEX</th><th>CON</th><th>INT</th><th>WIS</th><th>CHA</th></tr>
    <tr><td>12 (+1)</td><td>16 (+3)</td><td>12 (+1)</td><td>4 (-3)</td><td>12 (+1)</td><td>6 (-2)</td></tr>
</table>
<hr>
<p><strong>Skills</strong> Perception +3, Stealth +5<br>
<strong>Senses</strong> darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 13<br>
<strong>Languages</strong> —<br>
<strong>Challenge</strong> 1/2 (100 XP)<br>
<strong>Proficiency Bonus</strong> +2</p>
<hr>
<p><strong>Keen Hearing and Smell.</strong> Tama has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell.</p>
<p><strong>Pack Tactics.</strong> Tama has advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of Tama's allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn't incapacitated.</p>
<hr>
<h4>Actions</h4>
<p><strong>Bite.</strong> <em>Melee Weapon Attack:</em> +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. <em>Hit:</em> 7 (2d4 + 3) piercing damage.</p>
</div>

h3. Description

A woman of about five foot nine, tawny-pale of skin, with pale grey-green eyes. Her hair is dusky grey at the roots and black toward the ends. Olive green and brown leather armour with feathered shoulder details — a ranger's kit worn with the confidence of someone who has already decided where the arrow goes.

h3. Key Items

* [[Pipes of Faunal Calling | Pipes of Faunal Calling]]
* [[Silver Guest Bracelet | Silver Guest Bracelet]]

<!-- OP_BIO -->
Chaotic Good. No faith (as far as anyone is aware).

*Father*:[[:raol-greyhirst |  _Raol Greyhirst_]]; Human, Chondathan descent (black hair and green eyes – tawny skin, slender and tall 6’1”)
	A Carpenter and Farmhand – often foraging in the woods and searching for good timber to harvest sustainably for his work (when he can). Worldly pressures forced him to search beyond his usual territories, where he happened upon Sylthana for the first time (who initially sent him packing, thinking he was there to strip an area of the forest of trees).
	Moderate fighting skill, which is something Ros aspired after (rather than Druidic study), much to the disappointment of her mother.

*Mother*:[[:sylthana-mistayruar |  _Sylthana Mistayruar_]]; Wood Elf (Wild Elves – Grugagh), (Pale copper skin, Light green eyes, very dark brown/black hair, 5’8”, very slim)
	Part of a Druidic clan, who were semi-nomadic, riding stags when steeds were required. Stoic but with a fiery streak – the older Ros got, the more they argued. As a young girl Ros resented the fact that she had to live with her mother, away from her father, and was never given an Elvish name (not understanding - until much later when she had already moved away - that among elves it is more favourable/ fashionable [acceptable, even] to adopt a human name for a half-elf). She saw it as a way her mother was silently rejecting her ('not true' her Mother would insist, though the other elves would support it as a sign of disapproval and tended to ostracise Ros).

*Brother*: _Name TBC_; Half-elf (black hair with an almost green tint, pale copper skin, green eyes - broad for an elf but still slender, 6' 2")
       Ros and her younger brother have been estranged for years. Time will tell if she is able to open up about his existence, let alone seek him out again.

---

A quiet life in the forest is becoming less safe in recent years, with those encountered (flora and fauna alike) becoming less predictable and more difficult to either deal with or deter.
Ros is journeying to the city in search of a new purpose, with the hope of acquiring and gaining skills that were valued by the people that raised her. (Raised by elves as a youngling as part of a Druidic clan in her younger years, before falling out of favour as a half-elf and retreating to relative solitude).

Ros never tried to fight against the social prejudice or prove herself to others, meaning that she lost contact with those that raised her and grew up with her. Ros regreat not maintaining a connection with her home (village/town, not sure.). She has a younger brother that she hasn’t seen or heard of since she was 40.

*Rumours others might have heard of me* (_up to the other players to decide if they have ever, or would even have been likely to, catch wind of these_):
* _Main_: *She once poisoned a spring*, _Detail_: which provided vital sustenance for both livestock and a local village, in an effort to enact petty revenge against a local merchant who had refused to trade for her foraged wild foods.
FALSE – She was caught clearing the spring of poisonous plants, which admittedly she then took and used for both potions/concoctions and to get high. The toxins had already made it downstream before her harvest and resulted in the death of a small number of livestock [that happened to belong to a farmer that didn’t like Ros foraging too close to their land and arbitrarily blamed them whenever anything went wrong. People tend to forget that bit…].
Yes the merchant had refused to trade, though she had no intent for revenge and no villagers were harmed, even if over the years the tale mysteriously seems to include more and more casualties.

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
<!-- OP_DDB_GM_FEATURES -->
<notextile>
<div class="ddb-sheet ddb-sheet-gm">
  <div class="ddb-section">
    <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Features &amp; Traits</h2>
    <div class="ddb-block"><strong>Darkvision.</strong> You can see in darkness (shades of gray) up to 60 ft.<br>
<strong>Fey Ancestry.</strong> You have advantage on saving throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put you to sleep.<br>
<strong>Skill Versatility.</strong> You gain proficiency in two skills of your choice.<br>
<strong>Ability Score Increase.</strong> Your Charisma score increases by 2, and two other ability scores of your choice increase by 1.<br>
<strong>Languages.</strong> You can speak, read, and write Common, Elvish, and one extra language of your choice.<br>
<strong>Age.</strong> Half-elves mature at the same rate humans do and reach adulthood around the age of 20. They live much longer than humans, however, often exceeding 180 years.<br>
<strong>Size.</strong> Half-elves are about the same size as humans, ranging from 5 to 6 feet tall. Your size is Medium.<br>
<strong>Speed.</strong> Your base walking speed is 30 feet.<br>
<strong>Ranger’s Companion.</strong> You gain a beast companion that accompanies you on your adventures and is trained to fight alongside you. The beast obeys your commands and takes its turn on your initiative. On your turn, you can command the beast where to move (no action required by you) or take the Attack, Dash, Disengage, or Help action. If you don't issue a command, the beast takes the Dodge action.<br>
<strong>Favored Enemy.</strong> You have advantage on Survival checks to track your favored enemies, as well as on INT checks to recall information about them. You also learn one language of your choice that is spoken by your favored enemies, if they speak one at all.<br>
<strong>Natural Explorer.</strong> You have a favored terrain type. Your proficiency bonus is doubled for proficient skills when you make an INT or WIS check related to it. While traveling for an hour or more in your chosen terrain, difficult terrain doesn’t slow your group’s travel, your group can’t become lost except by magical means, you remain alert to danger even when you are engaged in another activity, you can move stealthily at a normal pace (while alone), you find twice as much food while foraging, and while tracking creatures, you learn the exact number, sizes, and how long ago they passed through the area.<br>
<strong>Fighting Style.</strong> You adopt a particular style of fighting as your specialty.<br>
<strong>Spellcasting.</strong> You can cast known ranger spells using WIS as your spellcasting modifier (Spell DC 12, Spell Attack +4).<br>
<strong>Ranger Archetype.</strong> At 3rd level, you choose an archetype that you strive to emulate: the Hunter that is detailed at the end of the class description or one from another source. Your choice grants you features at 3rd level and again at 7th, 11th, and 15th level.<br>
<strong>Primeval Awareness.</strong> As an action, you can expend one ranger spell slot (1 minute per level of spell slot) to sense whether any aberrations, celestials, dragons, elementals, fey, fiends, or undead are present within 1 mile of you (or within up to 6 miles if you are in your favored terrain). This feature doesn’t reveal the creatures’ location or number.<br>
<strong>Proficiencies.</strong> Armor: Light armor, medium armor, shields Weapons: Simple weapons, martial weapons Tools: None Saving Throws: Strength, Dexterity Skills: Choose three from Animal Handling, Athletics, Insight, Investigation, Nature, Perception, Stealth, and Survival<br>
<strong>Hit Points.</strong> Hit Dice: 1d10 per ranger level Hit Points at 1st Level: 10 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d10 (or 6) + your Constitution modifier per ranger level after 1st<br>
<strong>Equipment.</strong> You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background: (a) scale mail or (b) leather armor (a) two shortswords or (b) two simple melee weapons (a) a dungeoneer’s pack or (b) an explorer’s pack A longbow and a quiver of 20 arrows<br>
<strong>Hero's Journey Boon.</strong> At your GM's discretion you have been granted a Hero's Journey Boon.<br>
<strong>Dark Bargain.</strong> At your GM's discretion, you have taken a Dark Bargain.</div>
  </div>
</div>
</notextile>
<!-- OP_DDB_GM_FEATURES_END -->

h2. Player sheet (D&D Beyond)

* *Age:* 87 (medium).
* *Faith:* None (yet).
* *Personality:* Places no stock in wealthy or well-mannered folk — money and manners will not save you from a hungry owlbear.
* *Ideal:* Change — life is like the seasons, in constant change, and we must change with it (Chaotic).
* *Bond:* Suffers awful visions of a coming disaster and will do anything to prevent it.
* *Flaw:* Too enamoured of ale, wine, and other intoxicants.
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
