---
op_id: 1da374ce6f564b32a15589e093a33448
op_slug: sable-silvestre
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Sable Silvestre
title: Sable Silvestre
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/sable-silvestre
op_created_at: '2026-07-05T13:07:10Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-05T13:07:10Z'
op_gm_only: true
is_player_character: false
tags:
- she/her
- Black Cats
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
You see a sharp-featured human woman in her thirties, dark hair cropped close and her face kept carefully plain — the sort of plain that takes effort. She wears Wallarch neutrals: brown coat, grey scarf, no house colours. A ledger book and a waxed cloth wrap sit within easy reach on the table beside her, the former flipped closed the instant you enter; her hands are ink-stained at the thumb and forefinger. She presents as tired, competent, and already calculating the price of whatever you are about to ask. Her voice is quiet and precise; she smiles only when it costs you something.

<!-- OP_BIO -->
[[The Black Cats | Black Cats]] contact at [[The Cutthroat's Repose | The Cutthroat's Repose]] — named through [[:emerich-surefoot | Emerich Surefoot]]'s lead (back room; password *Swordfish*).[1]

* *31st of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Met [[The Adventurers | the Wonch]] in the Repose back room while negotiating over [[:chuggaz | Chuggaz]] and the Fulcrum sabotage lead; accepted a slashed parchment demonstration of [[The Fallowhurst Sigil | The Fallowhurst Sigil]] in exchange for information.[2]

<hr>
fn1. [[Session 6: Wallarch | Session 6: Wallarch]] — Emerich under duress after the noon chase.

fn2. [[Session 12: No Questions, Some Answers | Session 12: No Questions, Some Answers]]

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
h2. Black Cats link

**[[The Black Cats | Black Cats]] — Tally.** Logistics and kompromat above the embedded **Latches**; relay for **Vault** at the Repose. Holds ledger extracts and adjutant material Vault will not commit on paper elsewhere. [[:chuggaz | Chuggaz]]'s Fulcrum rosters pass through her tier. She never admits Vault identity, syndicate ideology, or Chuggaz's **Latch** role without hard leverage.

h2. Prep

* **Session 12 posture:** Vault and the Cats fear [[The Adventurers | the Wonch]]'s unpredictability more than [[:hielaman | Hielaman]]. Default: **stall, misdirect, harmless gossip** — not open war unless cornered.
* **Opening beat:** Gillette's bolt to the kitchen buys her a few seconds; she may be seated with tea and a half-open ledger when the party arrive. She already knows who they are.
* **Primary ask:** get the impounded cart / [[:hielaman | Hielaman]] problem off the board before serious negotiation — see `notes/session-12-plan.md` § B3.
* **After Session 12:** holds the slashed parchment sigil demonstration. She knows it raised dead rats near the [[Quarantine Zone | Quarantine Zone]].
* **Possible offer:** kompromat fragment on [[House Meness | Meness]] **superiors** (not Hielaman), or Bear / Weasel / Snake descriptions if bargained fairly.
* **Won't give without leverage:** Chuggaz as Latch, Anathemist ideology, Vault identity, or anything that burns the Repose relay.
* **Escape:** *disguise self* to reach the street; *sleep* if the party get hands-on — then slip out via kitchen alleys. She does not fight to the death on premises.

h2. Stat block

<p>Baseline <strong>Black Cat Tally</strong> ([[The Black Cats | the-black-cats]] wiki); Sable favours <em>disguise self</em> and <em>sleep</em> over the template's rapier loadout when negotiating or escaping.</p>

<div class="stat-block">
<h3>Sable Silvestre</h3>
<p><em>Medium humanoid (human), neutral evil</em></p>
<p><strong>Armor Class</strong> 15 (studded leather)<br>
<strong>Hit Points</strong> 32 (5d8 + 10)<br>
<strong>Speed</strong> 30 ft.<br>
<strong>Initiative</strong> +3</p>
<hr>
<table>
    <tr><th>STR</th><th>DEX</th><th>CON</th><th>INT</th><th>WIS</th><th>CHA</th></tr>
    <tr><td>10 (+0)</td><td>16 (+3)</td><td>14 (+2)</td><td>13 (+1)</td><td>12 (+1)</td><td>15 (+2)</td></tr>
</table>
<hr>
<p><strong>Skills</strong> Deception +4, Insight +3, Persuasion +4, Sleight of Hand +4<br>
<strong>Senses</strong> passive Perception 11<br>
<strong>Languages</strong> Common<br>
<strong>Challenge</strong> 2 (450 XP)<br>
<strong>Proficiency Bonus</strong> +2</p>
<hr>
<p><strong>Spellcasting.</strong> Sable's spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 12, +4 to hit with spell attacks). She has three 2nd-level spell slots and knows the following spells:</p>
<p><em>1st level (at will):</em> <em>mage hand</em><br>
<em>2nd level (3 slots):</em> <em>disguise self</em>, <em>hold person</em>, <em>sleep</em></p>
<hr>
<p><strong>Cut a Deal.</strong> Sable offers a fragment of useful truth (kompromat hint, syndicate description, cart thread) in exchange for a concrete favour or a promise to leave the Repose out of Meness paperwork. A character who succeeds on a DC 14 Wisdom (Insight) check knows she is still holding back the words "Vault" and "Latch."</p>
<hr>
<h4>Actions</h4>
<p><strong>Multiattack.</strong> Sable makes two rapier attacks, or one rapier attack and casts <em>hold person</em> or <em>sleep</em>.</p>
<p><strong>Rapier.</strong> <em>Melee Weapon Attack:</em> +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. <em>Hit:</em> 7 (1d8 + 3) piercing damage.</p>
<p><strong>Fire Bolt (Cantrip).</strong> <em>Ranged Spell Attack:</em> +4 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. <em>Hit:</em> 5 (1d10) fire damage.</p>
</div>
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
