---
op_id: 4b956b3b793641ce80656e74c1fa02a1
op_slug: serjeant-eirik-tryke
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Serjeant Eirik Tryke
title: Serjeant Eirik Tryke
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/serjeant-eirik-tryke
op_created_at: '2026-06-25T17:09:12Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-04T11:12:37Z'
op_gm_only: false
is_player_character: false
tags:
- House Meness
- Adjutant
- he/him
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
A half-elf man with fair skin and a medium, soldier's build, his sandy hair kept regulation-short and his chin clean-shaven. He wears the [[House Meness | Meness]] watch uniform: a long white high-collared tunic-coat with black leather belt, shortsword, and truncheon, charcoal trousers tucked into polished black boots, and a stiff white constable's cap with the Meness shield badge at the front. He presents as alert and professionally relieved — a gatekeeper who has been waiting for someone competent to ask the right questions. He speaks clearly and without fuss, explaining what he knows in the order a good report should run.

<!-- OP_BIO -->
[[Adjutant | Adjutant]] of [[House Meness | House Meness]]; guards hidden service access to [[The Fulcrum | The Fulcrum]].

* *31st of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Recognised [[The Adventurers | the Wonch]] as [[Hexine Circle | Hexine Circle]] investigators and led them into the service tunnels.
** Showed the northwest foundation blast site and explained that twelve devices, correctly placed, might have brought the tower down.

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
h2. Prep

* Professional gatekeeper — validates the party's mandate if they identify themselves clearly.
* Knows the public/private split of the Fulcrum better than most visitors.
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
