---
op_id: 8998caedb29d44e3a4a987449c31e7ea
op_slug: swyfgrin
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Swyfgrin
title: Swyfgrin
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/swyfgrin
op_created_at: '2026-07-14T10:40:04Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-14T10:40:04Z'
op_gm_only: true
is_player_character: false
tags:
- character backstory
- he/him
- Deceased
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->


<!-- OP_BIO -->
[[:ayr | Ayr]]'s former thief-crew **crewmate and friend** — not kin — from the underground gang that recruited Ayr after his family lost their home in **Goatheim** to **GF & Sons Trust**.

Swyfgrin specialised in the acrobatic work of a burglary crew: the **tossing stunts** and ledge-hops that got a lighter partner up to treasure-room balconies while the rest covered below. Ayr still thinks of those jobs when [[:nakoma-deathwalker-mor-got-ha | Deathwalker]] hurls him up a cliff face — same trust, same arithmetic of height and grip.

On the **Baron von Goldfinger** mimic job, **seven** of the crew entered the vault. The trap was a chest-mimic; it took the first member at once. Swyfgrin had more mimic experience than Ayr and **fought it off** long enough to take wounds of his own while others fell. Survivors **shoved Ayr out**; the vault door **sealed**. **Died in the vault** with the rest of the crew — as far as players know.

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
h2. Links

* [[:ayr | Ayr]] — sole escapee from the vault job; irrational hatred of mimics; sworn revenge on Goldfinger ([[:regnif-d-log | Regnif d'Log]] in [[Sindrel | Sindrel]], unknown to Ayr through Session 11).
* **Vault roster** — see *Vault crew roster* on [[:ayr | Ayr]] GM block; remaining names TBD (Geo).
* **Race** — not established; **not gnome** (must be large enough to run the **tossing stunts** that hurl Small [[:ayr | Ayr]] up to ledges).
* Source: `ayr.textile` GM block; player Q&A (Jul 2026).
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
