---
op_id: df5fc5ad963d476f8319947de5eb4714
op_slug: sylthana-mistayruar
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Sylthana Mistayruar
title: Sylthana Mistayruar
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/sylthana-mistayruar
op_created_at: '2026-07-08T10:27:05Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-08T10:27:05Z'
op_gm_only: true
is_player_character: false
tags:
- character backstory
- Elf
- she/her
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->


<!-- OP_BIO -->
Mother of [[:rossin-ros-greyhirst | Rossin "Ros" Greyhirst]].

Sylthana is a wood elf of the Grugagh — wild elves of pale copper skin, light green eyes, very dark brown or black hair, slim build (about 5'8"). She belongs to a druidic clan that is semi-nomadic, riding stags when they need speed across their territory.

She is stoic by training and temperament, with a fiery streak that showed more often as Ros grew older. Their arguments centred on paths: Sylthana wanted druidic study; Ros wanted the fighting craft she saw in [[:raol-greyhirst | Raol]].

Ros spent her younger years living with Sylthana and the clan, apart from Raol. Sylthana never gave her an Elvish name — among the Grugagh it is fashionable, even acceptable, for a half-elf child to carry a human name. Ros read that as silent rejection. Sylthana insists it was not; other elves in the clan treated it as disapproval and ostracised Ros until she left.

Sylthana and Raol have a younger half-elven son (_name TBC_) whom Ros has not seen or heard from in decades.

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
h2. Links

* Daughter: [[:rossin-ros-greyhirst | Ros Greyhirst]] — half-elf ranger; fell out of favour with the clan and withdrew into relative solitude before travelling toward [[Sindrel | Sindrel]].
* Partner: [[:raol-greyhirst | Raol Greyhirst]].
* Source: player backstory on `rossin-ros-greyhirst.textile` (OP_BIO family section).
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
