---
op_id: 4101f6ab35084d1e9b100cbb94da82cd
op_slug: tama
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Giant Stoat
title: Giant Stoat
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/tama
op_created_at: '2026-01-05T12:04:14Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-14T07:55:28Z'
op_gm_only: false
is_player_character: false
tags:
- in-party
avatar_url: https://db4sgowjqfwig.cloudfront.net/images/7450703/5dcdcfed3c88af8ebaf475668b86076f.jpg
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
A stoat the size of a large dog - long-bodied, russet-and-cream fur, bright predatory eyes - watching you with the frank interest of something that has not yet entirely decided whether you are food, furniture, or friend.

<!-- OP_BIO -->
Tama was first encountered by the [[The Adventurers | Neighbourhood Wonch]] in the orchard of [[Fallowhurst College | Fallowhurst College]].

* *date todo*
** After being caught in [[Strangle Vines | Strangle Vines]] at [[Fallowhurst | Fallowhurst]] Orchard, was freed by [[:rossin-ros-greyhirst | Rossin "Ros" Greyhirst]] and [[:ayr | Ayr Ravenshield]][1]
*31st of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*
** Reunited with the party in [[Merrylane | Merrylane Park]]; bonded to [[:rossin-ros-greyhirst | Ros]] as her animal companion.[2]

<div class="op-footnotes">

fn1. [[Session 2: Fallowhurst | Session 2: Fallowhurst]]

fn2. [[Session 10: Shakes Spear in the Park | Session 10: Shakes Spear in the Park]]

</div>

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
<div class="stat-block">
<h3>Tama</h3>
<p><em>Medium beast, unaligned</em></p>
<p><strong>Armor Class</strong> 13<br>
<strong>Hit Points</strong> 13 (2d8 + 4)<br>
<strong>Speed</strong> 40 ft.<br>
<strong>Initiative</strong> +3</p>
<hr>
<table>
    <tr><th>STR</th><th>DEX</th><th>CON</th><th>INT</th><th>WIS</th><th>CHA</th></tr>
    <tr><td>12 (+1)</td><td>16 (+3)</td><td>12 (+1)</td><td>4 (-3)</td><td>12 (+1)</td><td>6 (-2)</td></tr>
</table>
<hr>
<p><strong>Skills</strong> Perception +3, Stealth +5<br>
<strong>Senses</strong> darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 13<br>
<strong>Languages</strong> —<br>
<strong>Challenge</strong> 1/2 (100 XP)<br>
<strong>Proficiency Bonus</strong> +2</p>
<hr>
<p><strong>Keen Hearing and Smell.</strong> Tama has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell.</p>
<p><strong>Pack Tactics.</strong> Tama has advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of Tama's allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn't incapacitated.</p>
<hr>
<h4>Actions</h4>
<p><strong>Bite.</strong> <em>Melee Weapon Attack:</em> +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. <em>Hit:</em> 7 (2d4 + 3) piercing damage.</p>
</div>
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
