---
op_id: 0b632d5cf9334791ae518d6643cbd90f
op_slug: temperance-halke
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Temperance Halke
title: Temperance Halke
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/temperance-halke
op_created_at: '2026-06-28T00:10:21Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-06-29T14:19:23Z'
op_gm_only: false
is_player_character: false
tags:
- she/her
- House Grimbolg
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
You see a broad-shouldered human woman with deep brown skin and a sturdy, porter's build, her greying hair cropped for work under a plain head-wrap. She wears black [[Osteomantic Archives | archive]] robes over [[House Grimbolg | Grimbolg]]-practical layers: moss-green wool sleeves and heavy boots — house influence showing in the workwear beneath the mortuary black. She presents as unflappable labour, focused on the task. She speaks in few words, directed at colleagues rather than visitors.

<!-- OP_BIO -->
*29th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*

* Present at the funeral of [[:micycle-smynth | Micycle Smynth]]. One of the two archive staff [[:rossin-ros-greyhirst | Ros]] spotted in dark robes during the service. Temperance and [[:seelie-ophelan | Seelie Ophelan]] collected [[:micycle-smynth | Micycle]]'s remains after the cold flame stripped the flesh and carried them toward the room where [[:nakoma-deathwalker-mor-got-ha | Deathwalker]] and [[:amanira | Amanira]] were exploring — narrowly avoided when the party fled.

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
h2. True role

Full name: Temperance Halke

Suggested house affiliation (index when revealed): [[House Grimbolg | House Grimbolg]]. Porters, alcove maintenance, and bone inlay at the Wallarch branch — the unglamorous labour the floating houses prefer not to fund. Halke took a curator's oath after apprenticing in the [[House Grimbolg | Cornucopia]]'s reclamation yards; the name is aspirational.

Works alongside [[:seelie-ophelan | Seelie Ophelan]], who handles rites and vestments.
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
