---
op_id: 72799128ec3843bbb489b2f8b72126af
op_slug: wilrin-racenglade
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Wilrin Ravenglade
title: Wilrin Ravenglade
op_url: https://thelordsofsindrel.obsidianportal.com/characters/wilrin-racenglade
op_created_at: '2025-12-14T17:07:18Z'
op_updated_at: '2026-07-01T21:22:29Z'
op_gm_only: false
is_player_character: true
tags:
- he/him
avatar_url: https://db4sgowjqfwig.cloudfront.net/images/7457590/WhatsApp_Image_2026-01-15_at_14.33.55.jpeg
dndbeyond_id: '151085741'
dndbeyond_url: https://www.dndbeyond.com/characters/151085741
dndbeyond_synced_at: '2026-07-08T12:29:03Z'
---

<!-- OP_DDB_SHEET -->
<div class="ddb-sheet">
  <header class="ddb-header">
    <div class="ddb-header-main">
      <h1 class="ddb-name">Wilrin RavenGlade</h1>
      <p class="ddb-subtitle">Sorcerer (Wild Magic) 3</p>
      <ul class="ddb-meta">
        <li><span class="ddb-label">Race</span> Lightfoot Halfling</li>
        <li><span class="ddb-label">Background</span> Feylost</li>
        <li><span class="ddb-label">Alignment</span> </li>
        <li><span class="ddb-label">Proficiency</span> +2</li>
        <li><span class="ddb-label">Inspiration</span> No</li>
      </ul>
      <p class="ddb-links">Ne0ni · The Lords of Sindrel</p>
    </div>
    <div class="ddb-avatar-wrap">&lt;img src=&quot;https://www.dndbeyond.com/avatars/54284/245/1581111423-151085741.jpeg?width=150&amp;amp;height=150&amp;amp;fit=crop&amp;amp;quality=95&amp;amp;auto=webp&quot; alt=&quot;&quot;&gt;</div>
  </header>

  <section class="ddb-section ddb-defenses">
    <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Defenses</h2>
    <div class="ddb-pill-grid">
      <div class="ddb-pill"><span class="ddb-pill-label">AC</span><span class="ddb-pill-value">13</span></div>
      <div class="ddb-pill ddb-pill-wide">
        <span class="ddb-pill-label">HP</span>
        <span class="ddb-pill-value">13</span>
        <span class="ddb-pill-sep">/</span>
        <span class="ddb-pill-value">14</span>
      </div>
      <div class="ddb-pill"><span class="ddb-pill-label">Temp</span><span class="ddb-pill-value">0</span></div>
      <div class="ddb-pill"><span class="ddb-pill-label">Speed</span><span class="ddb-pill-value">25 ft.</span></div>
      <div class="ddb-pill"><span class="ddb-pill-label">Init</span><span class="ddb-pill-value">+3</span></div>
      <div class="ddb-pill"><span class="ddb-pill-label">Hit Dice</span><span class="ddb-pill-value"></span></div>
    </div>
  </section>

  <div class="ddb-columns">
    <section class="ddb-section">
      <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Abilities</h2>
      <div class="ddb-ability-grid">
        <div class="ddb-ability"><span class="ddb-ability-label">STR</span><span class="ddb-ability-value">9 (-1)</span></div>
        <div class="ddb-ability"><span class="ddb-ability-label">DEX</span><span class="ddb-ability-value">16 (+3)</span></div>
        <div class="ddb-ability"><span class="ddb-ability-label">CON</span><span class="ddb-ability-value">13 (+1)</span></div>
        <div class="ddb-ability"><span class="ddb-ability-label">INT</span><span class="ddb-ability-value">12 (+1)</span></div>
        <div class="ddb-ability"><span class="ddb-ability-label">WIS</span><span class="ddb-ability-value">15 (+2)</span></div>
        <div class="ddb-ability"><span class="ddb-ability-label">CHA</span><span class="ddb-ability-value">19 (+4)</span></div>
      </div>
      <h3 class="ddb-subsection-title">Saving Throws</h3>
      <div class="ddb-block">STR -1<br>
DEX +3<br>
CON +1<br>
INT +1<br>
WIS +2<br>
CHA +4</div>
    </section>

    <section class="ddb-section">
      <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Skills &amp; Senses</h2>
      <div class="ddb-block">Arcana +3 *<br>
Deception +6 *<br>
Persuasion +6 *<br>
Survival +4 *</div>
      <div class="ddb-sense-row">
        <div><span class="ddb-sense-label">Passive Perception</span><span class="ddb-sense-value">12</span></div>
        <div><span class="ddb-sense-label">Passive Investigation</span><span class="ddb-sense-value">11</span></div>
        <div><span class="ddb-sense-label">Passive Insight</span><span class="ddb-sense-value">12</span></div>
      </div>
    </section>
  </div>

  <section class="ddb-section">
    <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Actions</h2>
    <div class="ddb-block">Dagger. +1 to hit, range 20 ft., 1d4 piercing<br>
Crossbow, Light. +1 to hit, range 80 ft., 1d8 piercing<br>
Sorcery Points. You have sorcery points that you regain when you finish a long rest.<br>
Convert Sorcery Points. You can use your sorcery points to gain additional spell slots or sacrifice spell slots to gain additional sorcery points as a bonus action.<br>
Metamagic - Twinned Spell. You can spend sorcery points equal to a spell&#x27;s level (1 for a cantrip) to target a second creature in range with the same spell, as long as the spell at the level it&#x27;s being cast is incapable of targeting more than one creature.<br>
Tides of Chaos. Once per long rest, you can gain advantage on one attack roll, ability check, or saving throw. Before you regain use of this feature, the DM can have you roll on the Wild Magic Surge table after you cast a 1st level or higher spell. You then regain the use of this feature.<br>
Metamagic - Quickened Spell. When you cast a spell that has a casting time of 1 action, you can spend 2 sorcery points to change the casting time to 1 bonus action for this casting.</div>
  </section>

  <section class="ddb-section">
    <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Limited Use</h2>
    <div class="ddb-block">Sorcery Points (3/long rest). You have sorcery points that you regain when you finish a long rest.<br>
Tides of Chaos (1/long rest). Once per long rest, you can gain advantage on one attack roll, ability check, or saving throw. Before you regain use of this feature, the DM can have you roll on the Wild Magic Surge table after you cast a 1st level or higher spell. You then regain the use of this feature.</div>
  </section>

  <section class="ddb-section">
    <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Features &amp; Traits</h2>
    <div class="ddb-block">Lucky. When you roll a 1 on the d20 for an attack roll, ability check, or saving throw, you can reroll the die and must use the new roll.<br>
Brave. You have advantage on saving throws against being frightened.<br>
Halfling Nimbleness. You can move through the space of any creature that is of a size larger than yours.<br>
Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity score increases by 2.<br>
Languages. You can speak, read, and write Common and Halfling. The Halfling language isn’t secret, but halflings are loath to share it with others. They write very little, so they don’t have a rich body of literature. Their oral tradition, however, is very strong. Almost all halflings speak Common to converse with the people in whose lands they dwell or through which they are traveling.<br>
Age. A halfling reaches adulthood at the age of 20 and generally lives into the middle of his or her second century.<br>
Size. Halflings average about 3 feet tall and weigh about 40 pounds. Your size is Small.<br>
Speed. Your base walking speed is 25 feet.<br>
Naturally Stealthy. You can attempt to hide even when you are obscured only by a creature that is at least one size larger than you.<br>
Ability Score Increase. Your Charisma score increases by 1.<br>
Wild Magic Surge. Once per turn, the DM can have you roll a d20 immediately after you cast a sorcerer spell of 1st level or higher. If you roll a 1, roll on the Wild Magic Surge table to create a magical effect.<br>
Tides of Chaos. Once per long rest, you can gain advantage on one attack roll, ability check, or saving throw. Before you regain use of this feature, the DM can have you roll on the Wild Magic Surge table after you cast a 1st level or higher spell. You then regain the use of this feature.<br>
Spellcasting. You can cast known sorcerer spells using CHA as your spellcasting modifier (Spell DC , Spell Attack ). You can use an arcane focus as a spellcasting focus.<br>
Sorcerous Origin. Choose a sorcerous origin, which describes the source of your innate magical power: Draconic Bloodline, detailed at the end of the class description, or one from another source. Your choice grants you features when you choose it at 1st level and again at 6th, 14th, and 18th level.<br>
Font of Magic. You have sorcery points that you regain when you finish a long rest. You can use your sorcery points to gain additional spell slots or sacrifice spell slots to gain additional sorcery points as a bonus action.<br>
Metamagic. You gain the ability to twist spells to suit your needs.<br>
Proficiencies. Armor: None Weapons: Daggers, darts, slings, quarterstaffs, light crossbows Tools: None Saving Throws: Constitution, Charisma Skills: Choose two from Arcana, Deception, Insight, Intimidation, Persuasion, and Religion<br>
Hit Points. Hit Dice: 1d6 per sorcerer level Hit Points at 1st Level: 6 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d6 (or 4) + your Constitution modifier per sorcerer level after 1st<br>
Equipment. You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background: (a) a light crossbow and 20 bolts or (b) any simple weapon (a) a component pouch or (b) an arcane focus (a) a dungeoneer’s pack or (b) an explorer’s pack Two daggers<br>
Hero&#x27;s Journey Boon. At your GM&#x27;s discretion you have been granted a Hero&#x27;s Journey Boon.<br>
Dark Bargain. At your GM&#x27;s discretion, you have taken a Dark Bargain.</div>
  </section>

  <section class="ddb-section">
    <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Proficiencies &amp; Training</h2>
    <div class="ddb-kv"><span class="ddb-label">Proficiencies</span><span class="ddb-kv-value">Crossbow, Light, Dagger, Dart, Flute, Quarterstaff, Sling</span></div>
    <div class="ddb-kv"><span class="ddb-label">Languages</span><span class="ddb-kv-value">Common, Gnomish, Halfling</span></div>
    <div class="ddb-kv"><span class="ddb-label">Tools</span><span class="ddb-kv-value">—</span></div>
  </section>

  <section class="ddb-section">
    <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Inventory</h2>
    <div class="ddb-block">Dagger<br>
Dagger<br>
Crossbow, Light<br>
Crossbow Bolts x20<br>
Crystal<br>
Backpack<br>
Clothes, Traveler&#x27;s<br>
Pan Flute<br>
Bedroll<br>
Mess Kit<br>
Rations (1 day) x10<br>
Rope, Hempen (50 feet)<br>
Tinderbox<br>
Torch x10<br>
Waterskin<br>
8 gp</div>
  </section>

  <section class="ddb-section">
    <h2 class="ddb-section-title">Spellcasting</h2>
    <div class="ddb-spell-header">
      <div><span class="ddb-label">Ability</span> cha</div>
      <div><span class="ddb-label">Save DC</span> 14</div>
      <div><span class="ddb-label">Attack</span> +6</div>
    </div>
    <h3 class="ddb-subsection-title">Spell Slots</h3>
    <div class="ddb-block">1st 4/4<br>
2nd 0/2</div>
    <h3 class="ddb-subsection-title">Spells Prepared / Known</h3>
    <div class="ddb-block">Cantrips: Fire Bolt, Mage Hand, Minor Illusion, Retrieve</div>
  </section>

  <footer class="ddb-footer">
    <p class="ddb-sync"><span class="ddb-label">D&amp;D Beyond sync</span> 2026-07-08 12:29 UTC</p>
    <p class="ddb-disclaimer">Unofficial fan layout inspired by digital character sheet sections. Not affiliated with Wizards of the Coast or D&amp;D Beyond.</p>
  </footer>
</div>

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
Wilrin is a halfling sorcerer — slight of frame, sharp of cheekbone, with rounded ears flushed pink at the tips. His hair and beard are the same dark burgundy, the beard trimmed neat and the hair swept back in layered spikes. His complexion is pale; his eyes do not match — one dark and watchful, the other unnaturally pale, a reminder of the [[The Fallowhurst Sigil | Fallowhurst sigil]] that bound him. He dresses in a fitted wine-dark coat embroidered with curling spiral work at the chest and closed with a row of polished buttons.

h3. Key Items

* [[Anasthetic Scalpel | Anasthetic Scalpel]]
* [[Bone Dice | Bone Dice]]
* [[Dragonborn Skull | Dragonborn Skull]]
* [[Silver Guest Bracelet | Silver Guest Bracelet]]
* [[The Fallowhurst Sigil | The Fallowhurst Sigil]] (bound — sigil scar)

<!-- OP_BIO -->


<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
h2. Player sheet (D&D Beyond)

* *Personality:* Like a nomad — cannot settle in one place for long. Wherever he goes, tries to bring a little warmth and tranquility of home. Lives by his own set of weird and wonderful rules.
* *Ideals:* Empathy — no creature should be made to suffer (Good). Wanderlust — prefers the less-travelled path (Chaotic).
* *Bonds:* Finds all magic compelling; the more magical a place, the more he is drawn to it. Does what he can to protect the natural world.
* *Flaw:* Always changing his mind — well, almost always.

h2. Midsummer Enclave

The time fuckery of the [[Midsummer Enclave | Midsummer Enclave]] means that Wilrin's experiences within it do not have to line up temporally with the rest of the world. He may have returned before he left — his parents can be young, active members of society!
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
