# Character page template (repo only — not synced to Obsidian Portal)
#
# Copy to lore/characters/<op_slug>.textile when creating a new character.
# Omit op_id, op_url, op_created_at, op_updated_at — the lore bridge assigns those on first publish.
# Reference: .cursor/rules/lore-assistant.mdc § Character pages (template)

---
op_slug: example-npc
op_kind: Character
op_type: Character
name: Example NPC
title: Example NPC
op_gm_only: false
is_player_character: false
tags:
- she/her
# Party-known affiliations only on public pages (house, rank, pronouns).
# Unrevealed ties stay in GM_INFO until shown in play.
# avatar_url: https://...
---

<!-- OP_DESCRIPTION -->
You see a …

Cover all eight: race; skin tone; build; hair / facial hair; clothing (Factor → house Fashion wiki; Adjutant → house cues or uniform); how they present; how they talk.

<!-- OP_BIO -->
[[Factor | Factor]] of [[House Lithra | House Lithra]].

*29th of Enean, year 4218 ([[The Soulwind Calendar | SC]])*

- What the party witnessed or learned in play.

<!-- GM_INFO_START -->
h2. Prep

* Plot role, motives, and session prep bullets.

h2. Stat block

<div class="stat-block">
<h3>Example NPC</h3>
<p><em>Medium humanoid, neutral</em></p>
<p><strong>Armor Class</strong> 14<br>
<strong>Hit Points</strong> 27 (5d8 + 5)<br>
<strong>Speed</strong> 30 ft.<br>
<strong>Initiative</strong> +2 (12)</p>
<hr>
<table>
    <tr><th>STR</th><th>DEX</th><th>CON</th><th>INT</th><th>WIS</th><th>CHA</th></tr>
    <tr><td>10 (+0)</td><td>14 (+2)</td><td>12 (+1)</td><td>10 (+0)</td><td>12 (+1)</td><td>14 (+2)</td></tr>
</table>
<hr>
<p><strong>Senses</strong> passive Perception 11<br>
<strong>Languages</strong> Common<br>
<strong>Challenge</strong> 1 (200 XP)</p>
<hr>
<h4>Actions</h4>
<p><strong>Shortsword.</strong> <em>Melee Weapon Attack:</em> +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. <em>Hit:</em> 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage.</p>
</div>
<!-- GM_INFO_END -->
